Id	Name	NotIdentifiedName 	Notes
1	Longsword	Longsword	"Produced in great numbers, these slightly overbalanced swords are the arms of militiamen across the land."
2	Trollish War Sword	Longsword	"Though of primitive craftsmanship, the great weight of this weapon's blade gives it excellent striking power."
3	Dark Elven Longsword	Longsword	The weapon of a merchantman from the Dark Elven city of Alvar. It's wavy edged blade holds a good edge.
4	Templar's Sword	Longsword	A sword for a true swordsman. Its lack of ornamentation bespeaks of the singular purpose of its design.
5	Champion's Sword	Longsword	"These are made exclusively for members of the Erathian Order of the Blade. Since by tradition they are buried with their fallen wielders on hallowed and guarded grounds, they are rare articles indeed."
6	Two-Handed Sword	Two-Handed Sword	"This blade's great weight and length give its blows greater reach and damage. Otherwise, it is unexceptional in quality."
7	Dark Elven Bastard Sword	Two-Handed Sword	"Often carried by Elven caravan guards, these slightly under-proportioned blades are nearly, but not quite, light enough to brandish single-handedly."
8	Minotaur Battlesword	Two-Handed Sword	Only those possessed of great strength and balance can gracefully swing these mighty blades let alone control them in the heat of combat.
9	Dragonning Blade	Two-Handed Sword	"A deep biting, perfectly balanced weapon designed for one purpose - the slaying of dragons."
10	Headsman's Reaver	Two-Handed Sword	"Crafted from purified erudine alloy and then tempered in a pool of roiling lava, this sword's practically undullable and perfectly balanced blade backs up its intimidating appearance."
11	Iron Broadsword	Broadsword	Some swordsmen swear that the soft metal of an iron sword gives them certain combat advantages. Those swordsmen never seem to be very old.
12	Trollish Claymore	Broadsword	"Though of primitive design and craftsmanship, these Troll forged weapons are effective in strong hands."
13	Lizardman Broadsword	Broadsword	The Lizardmen produce a weapon capable of giving sturdy service.
14	Knightly Broadsword	Broadsword	The weight of this sword's untapered blade would make it unwieldy if not for its exacting counterbalance.
15	Archangel Broadsword	Broadsword	"This blade of pure erudine steel can cut armor like butter and gleams with a starlight glow. There are finer swords available, but their numbers can be counted on a single hand."
16	Rusty Cutlass	Cutlass	"This weapon may once have been of some quality, though it would be hard to tell through the apparent years of corrosion."
17	Goblin Scimitar	Cutlass	"After the Gowdar Deep Goblins were wiped off the face of Jadame in the Goblin-Ogre Wars, thousands of these weapons appeared on the common market."
18	Regnan Cutlass	Cutlass	"Issued to Regnan seamen as a basic side arm, these blades have gained a sturdy reputation."
19	Regnan Falchion	Cutlass	"The extremely forward balance of this weapon's blade gives it extra striking power, but requires great strength and skill from its wielder."
20	Captain's Cutlass	Cutlass	"Given to Regnan captains upon gaining their first command, these superior weapons help them to dominate their foes and subordinate."
21	Crude Dagger	Dagger	"As much a cutting tool and eating implement as a weapon, this dagger of soft steel will take an edge, but will lose it through very little use."
22	Crystal Dagger	Dagger	"These daggers are often carried by members of the Necromancers' Guild. The crystals used for the blades are found in the Shadowspire mountains. They are incredibly sharp, but have a tendency to shatter."
23	Merchantman's Dagger	Dagger	This dagger is a typical example of those produced by the weaponsmiths of Alvar. It is made of hardened steel and has excellent balance.
24	Master's Dagger	Dagger	"Daggers of this quality are rare indeed. Made of erudine and rare woods, finished in gold, and set with a sizable ruby, this would be a rich man's extravagance if it were not also so effective a weapon."
25	Fanged Blade	Dagger	The grip on this blade has clearly been rewrapped many times. It is said that such blades were used by the first Vampires who appeared millennia before the Silence. Could this possibly be one of those ancient weapons?
26	Long Dagger	Long Dagger	"With a blade in length between sword and dagger, these weapons are meant for the knife fighter who desires a bit of extra reach. This particular weapon is of mediocre workmanship in soft steel."
27	Alvarian Poignard	Long Dagger	"At many social functions in Alvar, it is deemed inappropriate to carry a sword. It is common for Elven warriors to carry a smaller blade in case things become uncivil."
28	Regnan Fighting Knife	Long Dagger	"Not wishing to be encumbered by a shield, many Regnan pirate raiders fight with a cutlass in one hand and one of these shorter blades in the other."
29	Twilight Kris	Long Dagger	This wavy bladed long dagger of the best quality steel is the product of the Twilight weaponsmiths. The bat wing guard set with a blood red ruby marks it as the weapon of a Vampire.
30	Dueling Long Dagger	Long Dagger	"While they present a united front to the rest of the world, there is much internal strife among the Vampires of Shadowspire. By custom, very serious differences are settled in battle using these deadly blades of exquisite craftwork."
31	Stone Axe	Axe	"Not much more than fire-hardened sticks lashed to sharp stones, these crude implements make for poor tools and weapons."
32	Battle Hatchet	Axe	"Often carried by mounted knights as a secondary arm, battle hatchets are preferred by some who carry them to the exclusion to any sword."
33	Battleaxe	Axe	These heavy axes are meant to be carried one-handed for use against both armored and unarmored foes.
34	Dwarven Battleaxe	Axe	"While the blacksmiths of the Jadamean Dark Dwarves are not as skilled as their Erathian counterparts, they still produce a product superior to most of what is otherwise available."
35	Minotaur Battleaxe	Axe	"Forged by the Minotaurs for their wars with the Ogres, these axes are forged of a secret alloy formula. Their edges are difficult to dull and even harder to sharpen."
36	Two-Handed Axe	Two-Handed Axe	"As much an implement for working wood as a weapon, this crude axe can still deliver a telling blow."
37	Footman's Axe	Two-Handed Axe	"Capable of splitting armor, these two-handed axes are a favorite among soldiers facing mounted knights."
38	Minotaur War Axe	Two-Handed Axe	These two-handed axes are commonly used by Minotaurs who have the strength necessary to handle their great weight.
39	Elite Minotaur Axe	Two-Handed Axe	"These axes of superior workmanship are issued only to members of The Blackened Horn, the elite warriors who guard Minotaur holy sites."
40	Minotaur Herdsman Axe	Two-Handed Axe	Minotaur herdsmen lead their troops into battle wielding these devastating war axes of superlative balance and workmanship.
41	Ogre Fighting Stick	Spear	"A fire-hardened and sharpened sapling studded with thorns, spears like these are used by Ogre troops for drill and basic combat training. "
42	Steel Spear	Spear	"Basic spears are found stockpiled in the armories of many races, and for good reason - they are effective and deadly weapons. This particular one is of Minotaur origin."
43	Elven Long Spear	Spear	The fine craftsmanship and balance of this alloy steel headed spear mark it as the work of the weaponsmiths of Alvar.
44	War Spear	Spear	"This spear is built for battle. Far to heavy to be wielded by the part-time militiaman, it is built for the professional warrior who prefers the spear to other weapons."
45	Dragon Harpoon	Spear	"The back-barbed stalt steel head of this weapon is designed to deal grievous damage to even the most ancient of dragons. Naturally, it is the spearfighter's choice for dispatching all foes."
46	Improvised Voulge	Halberd	This simple poleaxe appears to have been made by attaching the blade of a farm implement to a poorly crafted spear.
47	Halberd	Halberd	"A versatile weapon combining the qualities of an axe and a spear, the halberd is designed to perform in formation and individual close quarter fighting."
48	Beaked Halberd	Halberd	This improved halberd has a spiked blade opposite its axe face to provide both balance and a means of penetrating plate armor.
49	Minotaur Campaign Pole-axe	Halberd	"When the Minotaurs went to war with the Frost Giants of faraway Vori, their king Balthazar commissioned this polearm to arm his troops. He reportedly said, ""Since they will be gone so long, arm them with something versatile."""
50	Labyrinth Grapple	Halberd	Minotaurs have very little tolerance for intruders in their hallowed mazes. This fact is well evidenced in the attention paid to weapons constructed for the labyrinth guards.
51	Hayfork	Trident	"Though a common farming implement, this hayfork is of sturdy construction and could be an excellent, if improvised, weapon."
52	Infantry Fork	Trident	"A highly specialized piece of equipment intended to equalize contests between foot soldiers and mounted, armored opponents, these modified spears are effective if slightly clumsy weapons."
53	Lizardman Trident	Trident	The blacksmiths on the Dagger Wound Islands craft a wide variety of spearheads. This trident is one of their most unusual designs. The barbed tines cause extra damage during straight thrusting attacks.
54	Regnan Trident	Trident	No Regnan ship leaves port without a cache of tridents. Boarding attacks against their galleys seldom succeed against massed walls of their erudine tines.
55	Triton Trident	Trident	The first thing one notices when first handling this trident is that it is unusually cool to the touch. The second is a sense that the dragon turtle bone tines seem to seek vulnerabilities in their targets' defenses as if guided by an unseen hand.
56	Hunting Bow	Bow	These lightweight bows of simple construction are meant for bringing down small game animals - not for direct combat. 
57	Recurve Bow	Bow	Recurved bowstaves allows an archer to pull a heavier bow than they might otherwise be able to. Greater pull weight means greater arrow speed for increase range and damage.
58	Snakewood Bow	Bow	"The human soldiers of Enroth carry bows made from the native snakewood tree. The strong, flexible wood makes a sturdy bow."
59	Elven Warbow	Bow	"By laminating together layers of wood, steel, and bone the bowsmiths of Alvar have created a bow of perfect balance, strength and accuracy. The process consumes a lot of time, craft and expensive materials which explains the steep price these bows command."
60	Devilbone Bow	Bow	Dark Elven bowsmiths have discovered that unusual characteristics of the Kreegan spinal column make it the best material for heavy bowstaves. A clever arrangement of composite pulleys make it possible for those of less than superhuman strength to pull these mighty weapons.
61	Light Crossbow	Crossbow	"Because of their ease of use, crossbows like these are stockpiled in militia armories everywhere. Their low pull strength and mediocre workmanship however, make them only moderately effective."
62	Blood Drop Crossbow	Crossbow	"A light crossbow of good quality, these weapons feature a grooved table, basic sights and a smooth releasing nut."
63	Hunting Crossbow	Crossbow	"Built for use in the field, this medium crossbow is designed for hunting, but is equally effective as a battle weapon."
64	Caravaner's Crossbow	Crossbow	The Merchants of Alvar like to see their caravan guards well armed. This well-crafted heavy crossbow has a cranked drawing mechanism.
65	Regnan Crossbow	Crossbow	The pirates of Regna Island have spent centuries perfecting their crossbow design. The resulting weapon has a crystal lensed sight and bowstaves of pure stalt - which would make the bow impossible to cock if not for the crank draw of erudine alloy.
66	Mace	Mace	"A slight improvement over the common club, maces are better balanced, more durable, and deliver greater damage."
67	Flail	Flail	"Though evolved from the farm implement which shares its name, the flail's great reach and striking power make it a fearsome weapon."
68	Temple Mace	Mace	The sunray corona circling the head of this well made mace serves as a devotional declaration for Temple of the Sun clerics; it also greatly increases the damage of its blows. 
69	Reverend Sceptre	Mace	"As much a symbol of office as weapon, these finely crafted maces are carried by inner circle Sun Temple priests. Its highly decorated shaft belies the effectiveness of the gilded erudine-steel head."
70	Trollish War Mace	Mace	"While most races have concentrated on developing bladed weapons, the Trolls have always been content to refine the simple bludgeon. This brutal weapon forged as a single piece of stalt alloy is the finest example of their craft."
71	Sledgehammer	Hammer	"This hammer is more a construction tool than a weapon. Still, it could deliver a telling, if clumsy, blow."
72	Field Hammer	Hammer	This hammer was designed as secondary infantry arm designed to finish off armored opponents who have fallen to the ground.
73	Warhammer	Hammer	"An improved version of the field hammer, this weapon is heavier, better balanced and more durable. While it requires strength to wield, it is a terrible sight to armored and unarmored foes alike."
74	Sun Hammer	Hammer	"Clerics of the Sun are prohibited from using bladed weapons. That they carry such fine warhammers is the natural result of this restriction. As an added measure of devotion, a reverse image of their sun symbol is embossed on the striking face."
75	Trollish Maul	Hammer	It is necessary to handle this weapon to appreciate its perfect grip and balance. The hammer's head is carved from a single mineral crystal. Trollish weaponsmiths spend a lifetime mastering the shaping technique to produce a head that retains incredible hardness without being shatter prone.
76	Barbed Club	Club	"A wooden head and handle studded with short iron spikes, the simple club's best attribute is that it can be constructed from found materials."
77	Thornbark Club	Club	The Trolls of the Ironsand Desert make these clubs by fire-hardening the fantastically tough root wood of the thornbark tree.
78	Overlord's Club	Club	Troll tribal chieftains must win their position through trial by combat. The winner keeps his club as a symbol of office. The losers' clubs often find their way into the weapon marketplace.
79	Journey Staff	Staff	Many dangers face the Jadamean traveler. Even the least battle-minded carry some sort of weapon. These iron ended walking sticks are a common choice.
80	Orb Staff	Staff	This staff is topped with a head of polished turquoise to give it greater striking force.
81	Priestly Staff	Staff	"This finely decorated staff is the product of Lizardman craft. Wrapped with exotic leathers, and ended with a bronze footcap and striker, these staves are carried by Lizardman priests as a symbol of station."
82	Serpent Staff	Staff	"These rare staffs may appear unwieldy, but they are the product of sorcery. In combat they flex with animal intelligence to work in blows through their targets' defenses."
83	Bone Staff	Staff	"Fashioned from the spinal bones of wyverns and crowned by a dragon's lower spikeplate, these staves are the product of necromantic weaponcraft. It is unusual to find one of these deadly weapons that is not also carrying a powerful enchantment."
84	Leather Jerkin	Leather Armor	"This armor of thick, supple leather studded with brass offers minimal protection against blows."
85	Hardened Leather Vest	Leather Armor	This item of leather armor has been hardened to offer increased protection. It is comfortable and light though offers little coverage.
86	Caravaner's Leather	Leather Armor	"This is the type of armor worn most often by those guarding Alverian merchant caravans. A hardened and internally braced breastplate covers an undersuit of tough but supple hide, offering the wearer full body protection with a minimal hampering of movement."
87	Regnan Leather	Leather Armor	"Though seemingly too thin to offer solid protection, this armor of Regnan design holds a subtle enchantment which makes the leather nearly steel tough. Additionally, a secret process makes the suit resistant to salt water corrosion."
88	Alvarian Leather	Leather Armor	Leather armor sets of this quality are of the finest produced by the Alvarian Armorers' Guild. The stalt-alloy edged panels are virtually inpenetrable; their clever interlockings give the wearer excellent freedom of movement.
89	Rusty Mail Vest	Chainmail	This corroded ring mail vest has seen better days. It has been field repaired in many places and even has a large patch of thinner mail salvaged from a piece of chain cowl.
90	Steel Chainmail	Chainmail	Constructed of strong steel this is the type of armor worn by the rank and file foot soldiers of many armies.
91	Minotaur Chainmail	Chainmail	"Of a design originally created by the Minotaurs for their Vori campaigns, this type of chainmail, with its good coverage and fine construction, has proven popular among other races. Now the armorsmiths of Bathazar Lair construct it in sizes for any with ready gold to spend."
92	Siertal Chainmail	Chainmail	The Alvarian Dark Elves guard their siertal-alloy formula carefully. Chainmail made from this metal is both light and capable of turning the hardest blades.
93	Erudine Chainmail	Chainmail	"Another master product of the Alvarian Armorers' Guild, this hybrid suit of plate and mail is made of siertal-alloy finished erudine with an attention to craftsmanship worthy of the precious materials."
94	Rusty Breastplate	Plate Armor	This piece of plate armor salvaged from a larger suit is so corroded it is a question whether it is equipment for a warrior or junk for the scrap man.
95	Banded Plate	Plate Armor	"Bands of steel cover the mid-torso of this chain and plate chest armor. While lighter and simpler to construct than continuously formed plate, this armor offers less protection than heavier plate."
96	Minotaur Plate	Plate Armor	"An example of the work produced by the Minotaur armorers of Balthazar Lair, this plate armor provides excellent mid-section protection. The arms are left free in the Minotaur-style."
97	Dark Knight Plate	Plate Armor	"Though lined with felt and red velvet, and decorated with enamel and gilding, this armor is no showpiece. The siertal-alloy plates are light, but tough enough that they must have been worked with tools with erudine working faces."
98	Dragoning Plate	Plate Armor	"The technique for making plate armor of erudine sheets is not known on Jadame. In fact, it is only produced by the master armorer, Derrick Goreth of Erathia who spent a lifetime constructing his famed White Light Forgeworks."
99	Trollish Shield	Large Shield	"A simple wooden shield of Trollish make, the design is often copied by apprentice armorsmiths just learning their craft."
100	Thornbark Shield	Large Shield	"Made from thornbark tree heartwood and rimmed with iron, this shield is sturdy, if a bit heavy."
101	Regnan Tournament Shield	Large Shield	"Every ten moons, the Regnans hold a great festival which includes a tournament of arms. The noble class contestants spare no expense in the commissioning of shields that are light, but tough enough to shelter them from harm."
102	Veteran Shield	Large Shield	"In the Demon Wars of Erathia, the Humans found that only erudine armor was proof against the fiery attacks of their foes. Bit by bit, pieces of this armor - like this shield - have made their way to Jadame."
103	Dragon Hunter's Shield	Large Shield	"The town of Kriegspire in Enroth had a problem with Dragons. These shields were their answer. Magically bound layers of erudine, stalt-steel and hydra leather, make a nearly unbreakable material resistant to most Dragon breath weapons."
104	Wooden Buckler	Small Shield	This small shield is gripped in the off-weapon hand. The wielder is much dependent on agility to make use of its scant defensive coverage.
105	Caravaner's Small Shield	Small Shield	"Caravan guards traveling Merchant of Alvar trade routes must often cover long distances on foot. This shield, like the rest of their equipment is well made and lightweight."
106	Calvary Shield	Small Shield	"A favorite among mounted knights, these steel shields are strong enough to turn aside the points of pikemen."
107	Death Head Shield	Small Shield	The Necromancers' Guild likes to arm its undead armies well. Their elite infantry carry these erudine alloy shield of great strength.
108	Eldritch Shield	Small Shield	"There are only twelve of these shields in known existence. Their bodies are made of an alloy that appears to seethe with the color of coal fire. Their rims are made of another unknown metal that is soft enough to catch blades, but doesn't gouge or scratch."
109	Helm	Helm	This cap of soft iron and unhardened leather provides a small measure of protection from blows to the head.
110	Lizardman Helm	Helm	Iron and leather helms of this sort are produced by blacksmiths everywhere. This one is of Lizardman manufacture and sports genuine ram horns.
111	Full Helm	Helm	Steel helms of this design are commissioned in large numbers by the Merchants of Alvar who issue them to mounted caravan guards.
112	Battle Helm	Helm	This full helmet is of superior materials and workmanship. The structurally weaker areas around the eye and nose slits are reinforced with siertal.
113	Dragon Helm	Helm	The faceplate of this superior helmet hinges on nearly invisible seams so that when closed it provides a snug fit and full face coverage. Only the most well-aimed blows have a chance of penetrating through.
114	Cloth Hat	Hat	A loose fitting hat made of sturdy cloth.
115	Festival Hat	Hat	Hats decorated with cheap glass gems are worn by Regnans on festival occassions--of which they have many.
116	Merchantman's Hat	Hat	"This pleated cap of velvet, lined and edged with black rabbit fur is decorated with a small enameled medallion. "
117	Leather Belt	Belt	A simple belt of cured leather. It is decorated with iron studs and closes with a pinned hasp.
118	Sturdy Belt	Belt	A thick leather belt. The studs and buckle are made of brass.
119	Wyvern Leather Belt	Belt	Wyvern leather is very tough and difficult to obtain. It is prized by Shadowspire leathercrafters because it becomes black when tanned--a color favored by their vampire and necromancer clientele.
120	Steel Belt	Belt	This well crafted belt is made of enameled steel. It has two cleverly concealed side hinges and has a latching clasp in back.
121	Artificer's Belt	Belt	Finely crafted belts of dragon leather are made to hold enchantments. This one is worked in gold and circled by thin bands of siertal.
122	Traveler's Cloak	Cloak	This warm cloak of dyed wool also offers a small amount of protection from weapon attacks.
123	Moon Temple Cloak	Cloak	The blue dye used to color the glove leather cloaks worn by Moon Temple clerics is derived from the frond petal flowers which grow only in the Mount Nighon region of Erathia.
124	Alvar Cloak	Cloak	"Made in Alvar, cloaks of this quality are often seen on the shoulders of the more wealthy members of the Alvarian Merchant Guild."
125	Necromancer Cloak	Cloak	Clearly a cloak made for a practitioner of the dark arts. This fine cloak is worked with arcane designs embroidered in darkened silver thread.
126	Vampire Cloak	Cloak	"This high collared, jet black cloak of wyvern leather is lined in red velvet--a style much favored by the elder vampires of Shadowspire."
127	Leather Gloves	Gauntlets	These gloves of poorly cured leather are worn by workmen everywhere.
128	Troll Gauntlets	Gauntlets	These leather gloves of Trollish make are studded with iron spikes at the knuckles.
129	Steel Gauntlets	Gauntlets	"Made of hinged plates of steel, these gauntlets offer good protection, but have a tendency to pinch."
130	Minotaur Gauntlets	Gauntlets	Siertal-alloy makes these gauntlets light and tough. Superior workmanship make them comfortable and flexible.
131	Crusader's Gauntlets	Gauntlets	These gauntlets are master crafted from pure erudine marking them as the product of Derrick Goreth's White Light Forgeworks.
132	Walking Boots	Boots	"Built more for comfort than combat, these boots of soft leather offer good protection from mud and sharp stones, but are not meant to turn weapon blows."
133	Hardened Leather Boots	Boots	The leather of these boots has been stiffened for greater protection. They are thick soled and lined with a thin layer of softer leather.
134	Regnan Boots	Boots	These steel capped boots are commonly worn by Regnan warriors. The leather parts are treated to make them waterproof.
135	Alvarian Boots	Boots	"Made by the Alvarian Elves, these boots are internally reinforced by bands of siertal-alloy. Their soles are softer than most boots making them quieter stepping."
136	Dragonning Boots	Boots	"Dragon hunters require unusually hardy protective gear, their boots not excepting. These boots are constructed with erudine-alloy shells lined with wyvern leather."
137	Bronze Ring	Ring	A simple bauble of very little value.
138	Gold Ring	Ring	A ring of soft gold rendered with half-hearted craftsmanship as a means of conveniently carrying a small amount of wealth.
139	Pearl Ring	Ring	A silver ring set with a good quality pearl.
140	Gemstone Ring	Ring	This gold ring is decorated with a variety of tiny gems giving it a multicolored sparkle.
141	Amethyst Ring	Ring	A ring set with three amethysts. The largest is an excellent stone - richly and evenly purple with a perfect cut.
142	Necromatic Ring	Ring	"Though made of semi-precious silver, this ring is highly valuable because it is well suited to holding enchantments of medium power."
143	Ruby Ring	Ring	"This simply elegant ring is set with a single, oval ruby of high quality - pigeon blood red, perfectly cut and clear of imperfections."
144	Vampire's Ring	Ring	"Worn only by elder Vampires of great power, it is said that a part of their life force is invested in the ring's creation. This would certainly explain their ability to hold powerful enchantments."
145	Sun Opal Ring	Ring	Sun opals shine with a mild inner light. They are extremely rare and coveted by elemental magicians.
146	Focal Ring	Ring	"The ""stone"" of this platinum ring is actually a tiny interplanar portal which draws power from realms beyond. The strength limit of the enchantments such rings can hold is the skill and knowledge of the enchanter."
147	Brass Charm	Amulet	These stamp formed and lacquered baubles are cheap trinkets sold to pilgrims as keepsake mementos.
148	Jade Amulet	Amulet	A large polished jade stone decorates and adds value to this simple amulet.
149	Blood Talisman	Amulet	"Made by necromancers to hold dark magics, other sorcerers have recognized their worth for other uses."
150	Shadow Sect Medallion	Amulet	"Formed in white and yellow gold, inlaid with jade, and studded with peridots, these amulets are worn by members of the secret Shadow Sect hidden beneath their clothing."
151	Locus Amulet	Amulet	"The pinnacle of artificer tradecraft, these amulets wrought in platinum and set with a perfect sapphire can contain enchantments of nearly unimaginable potency."
152	Witch's Wand of Fire	Wand	"The primitive materials of this wand is infused with dark spiritual energy. To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
153	Witch's Wand of Sparks	Wand	"The primitive materials of this wand is infused with dark spiritual energy. To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
154	Witch's Wand of Poison	Wand	"The primitive materials of this wand is infused with dark spiritual energy. To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
155	Witch's Wand of Stunning	Wand	"The primitive materials of this wand is infused with dark spiritual energy. To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
156	Witch's Wand of Harming	Wand	"The primitive materials of this wand is infused with dark spiritual energy. To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
157	Shaman's Wand of Light	Wand	"Something rattles ominously within the gog skull topping this wand - product of Ogre mage magic. To use it, you must equip it like a weapon."
158	Shaman's Wand of Ice	Wand	"Something rattles ominously within the gog skull topping this wand - product of Ogre mage magic. To use it, you must equip it like a weapon."
159	Shaman's Wand of Lashing	Wand	"Something rattles ominously within the gog skull topping this wand - product of Ogre mage magic. To use it, you must equip it like a weapon."
160	Shaman's Wand of Mind	Wand	"Something rattles ominously within the gog skull topping this wand - product of Ogre mage magic. To use it, you must equip it like a weapon."
161	Shaman's Wand of Swarms	Wand	"Something rattles ominously within the gog skull topping this wand - product of Ogre mage magic. To use it, you must equip it like a weapon."
162	Wizard Wand of Fireballs	Wand	"A wand of highly polished thornbark wrapped with platinum wire. To use it, you must equip it like a weapon."
163	Wizard Wand of Acid	Wand	"A wand of highly polished thornbark wrapped with platinum wire. To use it, you must equip it like a weapon."
164	Wizard Wand of Lightning	Wand	"A wand of highly polished thornbark wrapped with platinum wire. To use it, you must equip it like a weapon."
165	Wizard Wand of Blades	Wand	"A wand of highly polished thornbark wrapped with platinum wire. To use it, you must equip it like a weapon."
166	Wizard Wand of Berzerking	Wand	"A wand of highly polished thornbark wrapped with platinum wire. To use it, you must equip it like a weapon."
167	Serpent Wand of Blasting	Wand	"Made from the braided bodies of three snakes, this wand pulses like a slow heartbeat. To use it you must equip it like a weapon."
168	Serpent Wand of the Fist	Wand	"Made from the braided bodies of three snakes, this wand pulses like a slow heartbeat. To use it you must equip it like a weapon."
169	Serpent Wand of Rocks	Wand	"Made from the braided bodies of three snakes, this wand pulses like a slow heartbeat. To use it you must equip it like a weapon."
170	Serpent Wand of Paralysis	Wand	"Made from the braided bodies of three snakes, this wand pulses like a slow heartbeat. To use it you must equip it like a weapon."
171	Arcane Wand of Clouds	Wand	"Made from the braided bodies of three snakes, this wand pulses like a slow heartbeat. To use it you must equip it like a weapon."
172	Necrotic Wand of Implosion	Wand	"A unicorn horn capped with a gold set ruby and crowned with a sculpted skull, this wand could only be the creation of the Necromancers' Guild. To use it you must equip it like a weapon."
173	Necrotic Wand of Distortion	Wand	"A unicorn horn capped with a gold set ruby and crowned with a sculpted skull, this wand could only be the creation of the Necromancers' Guild. To use it you must equip it like a weapon."
174	Necrotic Wand of Shrapnel	Wand	"A unicorn horn capped with a gold set ruby and crowned with a sculpted skull, this wand could only be the creation of the Necromancers' Guild. To use it you must equip it like a weapon."
175	Necrotic Wand of Shrinking	Wand	"A unicorn horn capped with a gold set ruby and crowned with a sculpted skull, this wand could only be the creation of the Necromancers' Guild. To use it you must equip it like a weapon."
176	Necrotic Wand of Incineration	Wand	"A unicorn horn capped with a gold set ruby and crowned with a sculpted skull, this wand could only be the creation of the Necromancers' Guild. To use it you must equip it like a weapon."
177	Zircon	Gemstone	"A gem quality stone. It has no magical properties, so you might as well sell it."
178	Iolite	Gemstone	"A gem quality stone. It has no magical properties, so you might as well sell it."
179	Citrine	Gemstone	"A gem quality stone. It has no magical properties, so you might as well sell it."
180	Amber	Gemstone	"A gem quality stone. It has no magical properties, so you might as well sell it."
181	Amethyst	Gemstone	"A gem quality stone. It has no magical properties, so you might as well sell it."
182	Topaz	Gemstone	"A gem quality stone. It has no magical properties, so you might as well sell it."
183	Emerald	Gemstone	"A gem quality stone. It has no magical properties, so you might as well sell it."
184	Sapphire	Gemstone	"A gem quality stone. It has no magical properties, so you might as well sell it."
185	Ruby	Gemstone	"A gem quality stone. It has no magical properties, so you might as well sell it."
186	Diamond	Gemstone	"A gem quality stone. It has no magical properties, so you might as well sell it."
187	Gold	Gold	Gold
188	Gold	Gold	Gold
189	Gold	Gold	Gold
190	Dimension door	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
191	_misc191	0	
192	_misc192	0	
193	_misc193	0	
194	_misc194	0	
195	_misc195	0	
196	_misc196	0	
197	Gold	Gold	Gold
198	Gold	Gold	Gold
199	Gold	Gold	Gold
200	Widowsweep Berries	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, widowsweep berries can be used to mix red potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
201	Wolf's Eye	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, wolf eyes can be used to mix red potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
202	Phial of Gog Blood	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, gog blood can be used to mix red potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
203	Ruby	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, rubies can be used to mix red potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
204	Phoenix Feather	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, phoenix feathers can be used to mix red potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
205	Phima Root	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, phima roots can be used to mix blue potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
206	Meteor Fragment	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, meteor fragments can be used to mix blue potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
207	Will O' Wisp Heart	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, will o' wisp hearts can be used to mix blue potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
208	Datura	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, datura can be used to mix blue potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
209	Dragon Turtle Fang	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, dragon turtle fangs can be used to mix blue potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
210	Poppy Pod	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, poppy pods can be used to mix yellow potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
211	Thornbark	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, thornbark can be used to mix yellow potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
212	Sulfur	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, sulfur can be used to mix yellow potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
213	Garnet	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, garnets can be used to mix yellow potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
214	Unicorn Horn	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, unicorn horns can be used to mix yellow potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
215	Mushroom	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, mushrooms can be used to mix gray catalyst potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
216	Obsidian	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, obsidian can be used to mix gray catalyst potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
217	Wasp Wing	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, wasp wings can be used to mix gray catalyst potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
218	Mercury	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, mercury can be used to mix gray catalyst potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
219	Philosopher's Stone	Reagent	"An ingredient with alchemical properties, philosopher's stones can be used to mix gray catalyst potions. (To use, pick it up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
220	Potion Bottle	Potion Bottle	An empty bottle suitable for storing magic potions.
221	Catalyst	Gray Potion	"You can mix catalysts with other potions to affect their strength. Mix a potion with a catalyst and the potion will take on the strength of the catalyst. (To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.) "
222	Cure Wounds	Red Potion	"Heals 10 plus the potion strength hit points.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
223	Magic Potion	Blue Potion	"Restores 10 plus the potion strength spell points.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
224	Cure Weakness	Yellow Potion	"Cures Weakness.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
225	Cure Disease	Orange Potion	"Cures Disease. (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
226	Cure Poison	Purple Potion	"Cures Poison.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
227	Awaken	Green Potion	"Removes Sleep condition.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
228	Haste	Layered Potion	"Grants Haste (as the spell) for 30 minutes per point of potion strength.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
229	Heroism	Layered Potion	"Grants Heroism (as the spell) for 30 minutes per point of potion strength.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
230	Bless	Layered Potion	"Grants Bless (as the spell) for 30 minutes per point of potion strength.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
231	Preservation	Layered Potion	"Grants Preservation (as the spell) for 30 minutes per point of potion strength.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
232	Shield	Layered Potion	"Grants Shield (as the spell) for 30 minutes per point of potion strength.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
233	Recharge Item	Layered Potion	"Grants Recharge Item (as the spell).  The item permanently loses 70%-point of potion strength of its charges.   (To use, pick the potion up and right-click over an item with charges.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
234	Stoneskin	Layered Potion	"Grants Stone Skin (as the spell) for 30 minutes per point of potion strength.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
235	Water Breathing	Layered Potion	"Prevents drowning damage.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
236	Harden Item	Layered Potion	"Increases an item's toughness, making it more resistant to breaking.  (To use, pick the potion up and right-click over an item.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
237	Remove Fear	Layered Potion	"Cures Fear.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
238	Remove Curse	Layered Potion	"Cures Curse.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
239	Cure Insanity	Layered Potion	"Cures Insanity. (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
240	Might Boost	White Potion	"Increases temporary Might by three times the strength of the potion for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
241	Intellect Boost	White Potion	"Increases temporary Intellect by three times the strength of the potion for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
242	Personality Boost	White Potion	"Increases temporary Personality by three times the strength of the potion for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
243	Endurance Boost	White Potion	"Increases temporary Endurance by three times the strength of the potion for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
244	Speed Boost	White Potion	"Increases temporary Speed by three times the strength of the potion for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
245	Accuracy Boost	White Potion	"Increases temporary Accuracy by three times the strength of the potion for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
246	Flaming Potion	White Potion	"Adds the ""of Flame"" property to a non-magic weapon for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To use, pick the potion up and right-click over a non-magic weapon.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
247	Freezing Potion	White Potion	"Adds the ""of Frost"" property to a non-magic weapon for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To use, pick the potion up and right-click over a non-magic weapon.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
248	Noxious Potion	White Potion	"Adds the ""of Poison"" property to a non-magic weapon for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To use, pick the potion up and right-click over a non-magic weapon.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
249	Shocking Potion	White Potion	"Adds the ""of Sparks"" property to a non-magic weapon for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To use, pick the potion up and right-click over a non-magic weapon.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
250	Swift Potion	White Potion	"Adds the ""of Swiftness"" property to a non-magic weapon for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To use, pick the potion up and right-click over a non-magic weapon.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
251	Cure Paralysis	White Potion	"Cures Paralysis.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
252	Divine Restoration	White Potion	"Removes all adverse conditions (except Death, Stoned, or Eradicated).  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
253	Divine Cure	White Potion	"Heals five times the potion's strength of hit points.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
254	Divine Power	White Potion	"Restores five times the potion's strength of spell points.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
255	Luck Boost	White Potion	"Increases temporary Luck by three times the strength of the potion for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
256	Fire Resistance	White Potion	"Increases temporary Fire Resistance by three times the strength of the potion for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
257	Air Resistance	White Potion	"Increases temporary Air Resistance by three times the strength of the potion for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
258	Water Resistance	White Potion	"Increases temporary Water Resistance by three times the strength of the potion for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
259	Earth Resistance	White Potion	"Increases temporary Earth Resistance by three times the strength of the potion for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
260	Mind Resistance	White Potion	"Increases temporary Mind Resistance by three times the strength of the potion for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
261	Body Resistance	White Potion	"Increases temporary Body Resistance by three times the strength of the potion for 30 minutes per point of strength of the potion.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
262	Stone to Flesh	Black Potion	"Cures Stoned.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
263	Slaying Potion	Black Potion	"Adds ""of Dragon Slaying"" to a non-magic weapon.  (To use, pick the potion up and right-click over a non-magic weapon.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
264	Pure Luck	Black Potion	"Adds 50 to permanent Luck.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
265	Pure Speed	Black Potion	"Adds 50 to permanent Speed.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
266	Pure Intellect	Black Potion	"Adds 50 to permanent Intellect.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
267	Pure Endurance	Black Potion	"Adds 50 to permanent Endurance.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
268	Pure Personality	Black Potion	"Adds 50 to permanent Personality.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
269	Pure Accuracy	Black Potion	"Adds 50 to permanent Accuracy.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
270	Pure Might	Black Potion	"Adds 50 to permanent Might.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
271	Rejuvenation	Black Potion	"Removes all unnatural aging.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
272	Essence of Might	White Potion	"Permanently raises Might by 15 while reducing Intellect by 5.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
273	Essence of Intellect	White Potion	"Permanently raises Intellect by 15 while reducing Might by 5.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
274	Essence of Personality	White Potion	"Permanently raises Personality by 15 while reducing Speed by 5.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
275	Essence of Endurance	White Potion	"Permanently raises Endurance by 15 while reducing all other attributes by 1.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
276	Essence of Accuracy	White Potion	"Permanently raises Accuracy by 15 while reducing Luck by 5.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
277	Essence of Speed	White Potion	"Permanently raises Speed by 15 while reducing Personality by 5.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
278	Essence of Luck	White Potion	"Permanently raises Luck by 15 while reducing Accuracy by 5.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
279	Potion of Doom 	White Potion	"Permanently adds 1 to all seven stats and resistances at the cost of 5 years of magical aging.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
280	Divine Boost	Black Potion	"Increases all Seven Statistics temporarily by 3 per point of potion's power for (30 x Power) minutes.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
281	Divine Protection	Black Potion	"Increases Fire, Air, Water, Earth, Mind and Body resistances temporarily by 3 per point of potion's power for (30 x Power) minutes.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
282	Divine Transcendence	Black Potion	"Increases the characters level by 20 for (30 x Power) minutes.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
283	Potion of the Gods 	Black Potion	"Permanently raises all seven stats by 20 at the cost of 10 years of magical aging.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
284	Pure Fire Resistance	Black Potion	"Permanently adds 40 to Fire Resistance.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
285	Pure Air Resistance	Black Potion	"Permanently adds 40 to Air Resistance.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
286	Pure Water Resistance	Black Potion	"Permanently adds 40 to Water Resistance.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
287	Pure Earth Resistance	Black Potion	"Permanently adds 40 to Earth Resistance.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
288	Pure Mind Resistance	Black Potion	"Permanently adds 40 to Mind Resistance.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
289	Pure Body Resistance	Black Potion	"Permanently adds 40 to Body Resistance.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion.)"
290	Protection from Magic	White Potion	"Grants Protection from Magic (as the spell) for 30 minutes per point of potion strength.  (To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix two potions, pick up one and right-click it over the other.)"
291	_potion/reagent291	0	_potion/reagent291
292	_potion/reagent292	0	_potion/reagent292
293	_potion/reagent293	0	_potion/reagent293
294	_potion/reagent294	0	_potion/reagent294
295	_potion/reagent295	0	_potion/reagent295
296	_potion/reagent296	0	_potion/reagent296
297	_potion/reagent297	0	_potion/reagent297
298	_potion/reagent298	0	_potion/reagent298
299	_potion/reagent299	0	_potion/reagent299
300	Torch Light	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
301	Fire Bolt	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
302	Fire Resistance	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
303	Fire Aura	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
304	Haste	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
305	Fireball	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
306	Fire Spike	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
307	Immolation	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
308	Meteor Shower	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
309	Inferno	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
310	Incinerate	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
311	Wizard Eye	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
312	Feather Fall	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
313	Air Resistance	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
314	Sparks	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
315	Jump	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
316	Shield	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
317	Lightning Bolt	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
318	Invisibility	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
319	Implosion	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
320	Fly	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
321	Starburst	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
322	Awaken	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
323	Poison Spray	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
324	Water Resistance	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
325	Ice Bolt	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
326	Water Walk	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
327	Recharge Item	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
328	Acid Burst	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
329	Enchant Item	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
330	Town Portal	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
331	Ice Blast	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
332	Lloyd's Beacon	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
333	Stun	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
334	Slow	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
335	Earth Resistance	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
336	Deadly Swarm	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
337	Stone Skin	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
338	Blades	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
339	Stone to Flesh	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
340	Rock Blast	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
341	Telekinesis	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
342	Death Blossom	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
343	Mass Distortion	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
344	Detect Life	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
345	Bless	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
346	Fate	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
347	Turn Undead	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
348	Remove Curse	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
349	Preservation	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
350	Heroism	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
351	Spirit Lash	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
352	Raise Dead	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
353	Shared Life	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
354	Resurrection	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
355	Telepathy	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
356	Remove Fear	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
357	Mind Resistance	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
358	Mind Blast	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
359	Charm	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
360	Cure Paralysis	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
361	Berserk	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
362	Mass Fear	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
363	Cure Insanity	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
364	Psychic Shock	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
365	Enslave	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
366	Cure Weakness	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
367	Heal	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
368	Body Resistance	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
369	Harm	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
370	Regeneration	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
371	Cure Poison	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
372	Hammerhands	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
373	Cure Disease	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
374	Protection from Magic	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
375	Flying Fist	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
376	Power Cure	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
377	Light Bolt	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
378	Destroy Undead	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
379	Dispel Magic	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
380	Paralyze	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
381	Summon Wisp	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
382	Day of the Gods	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
383	Prismatic Light	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
384	Day of Protection	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
385	Hour of Power	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
386	Sunray	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
387	Divine Intervention	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
388	Reanimate	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
389	Toxic Cloud	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
390	Vampiric Weapon	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
391	Shrinking Ray	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
392	Shrapmetal	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
393	Control Undead	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
394	Pain Reflection	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
395	Dark Grasp	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
396	Dragon Breath	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
397	Armageddon	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
398	Souldrinker	Scroll	"A spell scroll.  (To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
399	scroll 399	0	scroll 399
400	Torch Light	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell.)"
401	Fire Bolt	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell.)"
402	Fire Resistance	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell.)"
403	Fire Aura	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell.)"
404	Haste	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell.)"
405	Fireball	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell.)"
406	Fire Spike	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell.)"
407	Immolation	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell.)"
408	Meteor Shower	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell.)"
409	Inferno	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell.)"
410	Incinerate	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell.)"
411	Wizard Eye	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell.)"
412	Feather Fall	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell.)"
413	Air Resistance	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell.)"
414	Sparks	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell.)"
415	Jump	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell.)"
416	Shield	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell.)"
417	Lightning Bolt	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell.)"
418	Invisibility	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell.)"
419	Implosion	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell.)"
420	Fly	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell.)"
421	Starburst	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell.)"
422	Awaken	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell.)"
423	Poison Spray	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell.)"
424	Water Resistance	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell.)"
425	Ice Bolt	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell.)"
426	Water Walk	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell.)"
427	Recharge Item	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell.)"
428	Acid Burst	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell.)"
429	Enchant Item	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell.)"
430	Town Portal	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell.)"
431	Ice Blast	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell.)"
432	Lloyd's Beacon	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell.)"
433	Stun	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell.)"
434	Slow	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell.)"
435	Earth Resistance	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell.)"
436	Deadly Swarm	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell.)"
437	Stone Skin	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell.)"
438	Blades	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell.)"
439	Stone to Flesh	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell.)"
440	Rock Blast	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell.)"
441	Telekinesis	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell.)"
442	Death Blossom	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell.)"
443	Mass Distortion	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell.)"
444	Detect Life	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell.)"
445	Bless	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell.)"
446	Fate	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell.)"
447	Turn Undead	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell.)"
448	Remove Curse	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell.)"
449	Preservation	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell.)"
450	Heroism	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell.)"
451	Spirit Lash	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell.)"
452	Raise Dead	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell.)"
453	Shared Life	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell.)"
454	Resurrection	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell.)"
455	Telepathy	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell.)"
456	Remove Fear	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell.)"
457	Mind Resistance	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell.)"
458	Mind Blast	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell.)"
459	Charm	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell.)"
460	Cure Paralysis	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell.)"
461	Berserk	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell.)"
462	Mass Fear	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell.)"
463	Cure Insanity	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell.)"
464	Psychic Shock	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell.)"
465	Enslave	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell.)"
466	Cure Weakness	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell.)"
467	Heal	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell.)"
468	Body Resistance	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell.)"
469	Harm	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell.)"
470	Regeneration	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell.)"
471	Cure Poison	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell.)"
472	Hammerhands	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell.)"
473	Cure Disease	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell.)"
474	Protection from Magic	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell.)"
475	Flying Fist	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell.)"
476	Power Cure	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell.)"
477	Light Bolt	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell.)"
478	Destroy Undead	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell.)"
479	Dispel Magic	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell.)"
480	Paralyze	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell.)"
481	Summon Wisp	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell.)"
482	Day of the Gods	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell.)"
483	Prismatic Light	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell.)"
484	Day of Protection	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell.)"
485	Hour of Power	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell.)"
486	Sunray	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell.)"
487	Divine Intervention	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell.)"
488	Reanimate	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell.)"
489	Toxic Cloud	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell.)"
490	Vampiric Weapon	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell.)"
491	Shrinking Ray	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell.)"
492	Shrapmetal	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell.)"
493	Control Undead	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell.)"
494	Pain Reflection	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell.)"
495	Dark Grasp	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell.)"
496	Dragon Breath	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell.)"
497	Armageddon	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell.)"
498	Souldrinker	Learning Book	"A spell book.  (To learn this spell, pick the book up and right-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell.)"
499	book 499	0	book 499
500	Elsenrail	Longsword	"(Accuracy +40, 10-20 points of Light damage) The Forge of Chaos was destroyed in the making of the Swords of Balance. Legend says the Blade of Light, Elsenrail, and the Blade of Dark, Glomenthal, will play major roles in the last act of the universe."
501	Glomenthal	Longsword	"(Might +40, 10-20 points of Dark damage) The Forge of Chaos was destroyed in the making of the Swords of Balance. Legend says the Blade of Light, Elsenrail, and the Blade of Dark, Glomenthal, will play major roles in the last act of the universe."
502	Terminus	Broadsword	"(Armsmaster skill +7, Air Resistance +30) As a child, before he carved his barbarian kingdom in Vori, Lars Eilief found this sword deep in an ice cave. When he died, it was set adrift with him on his funeral barge. How it ended up in Jadame is a mystery."
503	Judicious Measure	Cutlass	"(Endurance +40, Luck +40, Ogre Slaying) Before there was a Regnan Empire, the ancestors of the Trolls of Ironsand lived on Regna Island. With this blade and a horde of sea raiders, Hareck I ousted the Trolls and formed his pirate nation."
504	Elderaxe	Axe	"(Might +20, Swift, 6-12 points of Cold damage, Minotaur) When the Dark Dwarves carved the first Minotaur labyrinth into the heart of Mt. Ashenbane they forged this axe for Xaxius, the first herdmaster."
505	Volcano	Two-Handed Axe	"(10-20 points of Fire damage, Fire Resistance +40) The mad artificer, Cornelius of Blackshire, built this axe for the purpose of clearing the trees around his country estate. ""A single blow will both fell a tree and render it into firewood!"" he was heard to exclaim. That he was soon found slain and the axe gone missing is proof that someone saw a better use for the tool."
506	Wyrm Spitter	Spear	"(Endurance +20, Dragon Slaying, Swift) Arguably the best dragon hunter of all times, Sir Ryan Smedly carried this mighty spear with him on all his expeditions, claiming that with it in hand, he could best any dragon in single combat. This proved true, but nevertheless he was slain by no less than a dozen dragons who ambushed him at Shadowmarsh Pass."
507	Guardian	Halberd	"(+10 to all attributes, 10-20 points of Body damage) The great Vampire, Korbu was known to use living men to guard his crypt during daylight hours. Compelled by a spell of enslavement, these sorry souls would walk their rounds carrying these mighty halberds. When Korbu mysteriously vanished, and the slave spell failed, a few of these weapons appeared in the larger world."
508	Foulfang	Long Dagger	"(Vampiric, 10 points of Poison damage, Vampire) At the conclusion of the Vampires' War of the Chalice, Korbu exacted horrific retribution on his defeated enemy, Calden Fain. It is better for the world that knowledge of the necromantic arts which rendered Fain--body and soul--into this living blade, is lost."
509	Scepter of Kings	Mace	"(Personality + 40, Regenerate Hit Points) Uri Hossana, King of the Western Elves, also called ""The Drunken King,"" was deposed the day he carelessly misplaced his scepter of office while on a hunting trip. This proved to be the last blunder of an incapable ruler. His advisors relieved him of his crown and left him to fend for himself in the Howling Marsh. He was never seen again."
510	Breaker	Club	"(Might +20, Endurance +20, 10-20 points of Body damage) Trollish folklore is full of the fables of Sevenstrong Burlfist who with Biter, his faithful wolf companion, and his mighty club, Breaker, endlessly quested for the Silver Rose. Fables? One must wonder, if Breaker exists, then why not too, the Silver Rose?"
511	Staff of the Swamp	Staff	"(of Shielding; Immune to disease, paralysis, and poison) Nemerit, an otherwise unremarkable witch of the last era, was renown for her staff artificing skill. She created a staff for every conceivable use. It is said she carried this staff on reagent collecting trips into the swamplands."
512	Longseeker	Bow	"(Accuracy +50, Swift, Bow skill +4) Legends tell of many great archer heroes, but none greater than Brennan Morland of whom it was said once pierced a gold sovereign at 300 paces in an archery tournament. Now, holding his bow you must wonder if the legend owes more to the bow than the man."
513	Serendine's Preservation	Leather Armor	"(Regenerates Spell Points, Endurance +30) A mage known as much for frailty of body as for magical prowess, Serendine of Freehaven built this armor to make the most of his strengths and the least of his weaknesses."
514	Glomenmail	Chainmail	"(+10 to all statistics, +10 to all resistances, Dark Elf) Dark and Light Elven dealings have been peaceable, if uneasy, for centuries. Before that there was nothing but war. Few suits of this Dark Elven war armor have survived the ravages of time. Those that have are understandably, coveted."
515	Supreme Plate	Plate Armor	"(Swift, +15 Speed, +15 Accuracy, Knight) Each grandmaster of the Blackshire Armorers' Guild creates a masterpiece suit of plate as proof of his right to hold his station. It is not unusual for a guild member to spend ten to twenty years in the creation of one of these suits."
516	Eclipse	Large Shield	"Quest Item: (of Spirit, of Body, of Mind, Cleric) When the First Temple of the Sun was burned in the War of Dove and Crow fought between the Sun and Moon temples, the holy altar was melted. The altar's metal was later collected and incorporated into this shield carried by Sun Priest Derico during his final deciding campaign of the war."
517	Fleetfingers	Gauntlets	"(+8 to Disarm Trap, Bow, and Armsmaster skills) That she would actually have a name for her gloves, is evidence of the flamboyant, if deserved, conceit of Darcie Darby--most widely known for her theft of the bejeweled Rod of Right, part of the royal regalia of Enroth."
518	Herald's Boots	Boots	"(Speed + 30, Swift, Immunity to Sleep) When Jerico Ironfist secured the throne in the First War of Enrothian Succession, he sent forth heralds to spread the news. They were given pairs of these boots so the news would be spread quickly and thus soonest end widespread civil unrest."
519	Ring of Planes	Ring	"(+40 to Fire, Earth, Water and Air resistances) When the cartographer Alvia Morrania went to chart the terrain of the elemental planes she went well prepared. This ring of general protection was among the many special items commissioned by the Enrothian courts in support of her expedition."
520	Drogg's Helm	Helm	"(Personality +15, Intellect +15, Regenerates Hit Points) In the history of the barbarian tribes of Vori, it is rare to find a long reigning chieftain. Rarer still is one who held his position through magic rather than might. Drogg was such--a warrior mage who survived many years of rival challenges. It is said that he wore his helmet, even in sleep. Now that you possess it, you understand why."
521	Crown of Final Dominion	Crown	"(Intellect +50, of Dark Magic, Lich) So named by its creator and only sovereign wearer, Mederon, the first and last Lich Emperor of Nighon. The everlasting dynasty he hoped to found lasted barely a dozen years. Mederon escaped the fate of his kingdom. It is said he still lives as a madman and searches the world for his lost crown."
522	Archangel Wings	Cloak	"(Feather Falling, Intellect + 30, All magic resistances + 10) When Angels fall from grace, they lose their wings. Since this is an event of extreme infrequency, angel wings are a very rare commodity. Archangel wings are almost never seen. When used as a material, they imbue the resulting item with fantastic powers."
523	Snake	Longsword	"(Slows target, Water Resistance -50, Personality -15) The pommel of this sword is gruesomely butted by a shrunken medusa's head. Though greatly diminished, the medusa's power flows along Snake's blade and into its targets--a good design, but poorly implemented, for some of the negative energies flow into the sword's wielder as well."
524	Havoc	Longsword	"(Speed +70, Accuracy +70, Armor Class -20) Havoc's enchantment makes it able to readily defeat any target's defenses. Unfortunately, its aggressive spirit makes it indifferent to parrying movements."
525	Finality	Two-Handed Sword	"(10-20 points of Fire damage, Slow, Speed -20) When the arch assassin, Demetri Razen was finally brought to justice, it was found that his skin was granted unusual hardness by a permanent enchantment. Normal blades would not cut him, so Finality was forged to deliver the death blow sentenced by the Enrothian courts. "
526	Hell's Cleaver	Axe	"(Might + 70, Accuracy +70, Personality -50, Intellect -50) So called because of its power to demonize its wielder, nevertheless, there are many who would willingly pay the price for the power offered by ""Hell's Cleaver."""
527	Spiritslayer	Spear	"(Vampiric, Might +50, Luck -40) Many under the rule of Luthiner the Severe saw the existence of his spear Spiritslayer as proof of the existence of evil. The injuries caused by the spear go beyond the physical as Spiritslayer takes a strike as an opportunity to drink its target's very essence."
528	Trident of Rulership	Spear	"(Water Breathing, +70 Water Resistance, -70 Fire Resistance) The Trident of Rulership was never meant to be on dry land, yet when the once mighty, ocean to ocean, Triton empire collapsed, many of its greatest artifacts including those of its royal treasure were looted and made their way to the surface."
529	Blade of Mercy	Dagger	"(Might +40, 4-10 points Electrical damage, Accuracy -40, Necromancer) Though generally considered unfashionable among current necromantic customs, live sacrifice was once widely practiced. To reduce the cruelty inflicted on his victims, the Necromancer Ferredine the Merciful created a blade capable of bringing about a quicker and less suffered end."
530	Staff of Elements	Staff	"(of Air Magic, of Fire Magic, of Water Magic, of Earth Magic, -40 Armor Class) By imposing upon its wielder a deepened state of concentration, the Staff of Elements increases his or her affinity with elemental magic to a profound degree. Of course, it is not always a good thing to have one's attention taken away from one's immediate concerns."
531	Tournament Bow	Bow	"(Accuracy +100, Bow skill + 5, Armor Class -20) This bow was built to the specifications of the great Elven tournament archer, Terin Tourfeather. More concerned with fancy shooting than with the realities of the battlefield, the bow's detrimental effects were of no concern to Tourfeather--more workaday wielders should pay more heed."
532	Lightning Crossbow	Crossbow	"(Swift, Accuracy -50, Dark Elf) An ingenious combination of the mechanical and magical went into the creation of this self-cocking crossbow which launches its quarrels with incredible force. That the same launching force causes it to kick like a mule means only the most skilled can use it to any good effect."
533	Last Stage Cuirass	Leather Armor	"(Personality +80, Intellect +70, -30 Mind and Spirit resistances) The final stage of degeneration from their human form leaves a Lich completely soulless and thus immune to certain magics. Such liches often curse their personal items with vulnerabilities to these magics to dissuade others from using them."
534	Herondale's Lost Shield	Small Shield	"(Immune to Fear, Stone, Paralysis, and Sleep; Personality -15, Luck -15) The great knight Gerrald Herondale abandoned this shield after it took the brunt of a dark and deadly curse. Though it still retained its great powers, the shield was also weighed down with malevolent energies."
535	Ring of Fusion	Ring	"(of Water, Alchemy skill + 5, Intellect +40, Endurance -20) A lost relic of the Freehaven Alchemists' Guild, until its disappearance, this ring was the signet of the guildmaster. It was meant to be worn only during the mixing of the most powerful potions for it drew much energy from the user."
536	Lucky Hat	Hat	"(Luck + 90, Personality -50) The only reason someone would wear this hat is for the luck it conveys. It is the farthest thing from flattering!"
537	Berserker Belt	Belt	"(Might +100, Immune to Fear, Accuracy -30, Armor Class -15) An experiment of the Blackshire Artificers' Guild, this belt was designed to turn its wearer into the perfect warrior--mighty and fearless. No more were made when in field tests it became apparent that ""foolhardy"" and ""careless"" were not virtues of the perfect warrior."
538	Mace of the Sun	Mace	"Though at first it appears to be the same type of mace carried by Sun Temple clerics everywhere, this item seems to thrum with conflicting energies."
539	Ebonest	Spear	"Quest Item: Charles Quixote's personal spear of Dragon slaying, Ebonest is a fine weapon indeed. When used against a Dragon, it seems to aim unerringly for the chinks between its target's tough scales."
540	Sword of Whistlebone	Two-Handed Sword	Quest Item: That the Whistlebones would settle upon such a fierce weapon for their heirloom speaks much of their commitment to the family business of Dragon hunting.
541	Axe of Balthazar	Two-Handed Axe	Quest Item: No Minotaur kings wear a crown. Instead as their badge of office they carry great axes of the finest workmanship. This axe was lost when Balthazar was betrayed by the Vori Frost Giants. That it is strongly enchanted is clear; when used in battle its blows deliver both normal damage and impart a numbing bite of freezing cold.
542	Noblebone Bow	Bow	Bows of Kreegan bone are highly sought after; the material is strong and takes enchantments easily. The most sought after bone comes from Kreegans of the devil race's former ruling class.
543	Cycle of life	Ring	(Shared life, Endurance + 20) A ring of simple metal (copper or brass?), warm on touch.
544	artifact 544	0	artifact 544
545	artifact 545	0	artifact 545
546	artifact 546	0	artifact 546
547	artifact 547	0	artifact 547
548	artifact 548	0	artifact 548
549	artifact 549	0	artifact 549
550	artifact 550	0	artifact 550
551	artifact 551	0	artifact 551
552	artifact 552	0	artifact 552
553	artifact 553	0	artifact 553
554	artifact 554	0	artifact 554
555	artifact 555	0	artifact 555
556	artifact 556	0	artifact 556
557	artifact 557	0	artifact 557
558	artifact 558	0	artifact 558
559	artifact 559	0	artifact 559
560	artifact 560	0	artifact 560
561	artifact 561	0	artifact 561
562	artifact 562	0	artifact 562
563	artifact 563	0	artifact 563
564	artifact 564	0	artifact 564
565	artifact 565	0	artifact 565
566	artifact 566	0	artifact 566
567	artifact 567	0	artifact 567
568	artifact 568	0	artifact 568
569	artifact 569	0	artifact 569
570	artifact 570	0	artifact 570
571	artifact 571	0	artifact 571
572	artifact 572	0	artifact 572
573	artifact 573	0	artifact 573
574	artifact 574	0	artifact 574
575	artifact 575	0	artifact 575
576	artifact 576	0	artifact 576
577	artifact 577	0	artifact 577
578	artifact 578	0	artifact 578
579	artifact 579	0	artifact 579
580	artifact 580	0	artifact 580
581	artifact 581	0	artifact 581
582	artifact 582	0	artifact 582
583	artifact 583	0	artifact 583
584	artifact 584	0	artifact 584
585	artifact 585	0	artifact 585
586	artifact 586	0	artifact 586
587	artifact 587	0	artifact 587
588	artifact 588	0	artifact 588
589	artifact 589	0	artifact 589
590	artifact 590	0	artifact 590
591	artifact 591	0	artifact 591
592	artifact 592	0	artifact 592
593	artifact 593	0	artifact 593
594	artifact 594	0	artifact 594
595	artifact 595	0	artifact 595
596	artifact 596	0	artifact 596
597	artifact 597	0	artifact 597
598	artifact 598	0	artifact 598
599	artifact 599	0	artifact 599
600	quest item 600	0	quest item 600
601	quest item 601	0	quest item 601
602	False Report	Report	Quest Item: A letter given to you by Arion Hunter for delivery to the Dread Pirate Stanley on Regna.
603	Urn of Ashes	Urn	"Quest Item: A funerary urn entrusted to your care by the Troll, Overdune Snapfinger. It contains the ashes of his brother, Vilebite."
604	Nightshade Brazier	Brazier	Quest Item: This brazier emanates the unsettling vibrancy of dark magic. It smells strongly of pitch and sulfur.
605	Dragon Leader's Egg	Egg	Quest Item: This Dragon egg is nearly ready to hatch. The small life inside makes its presence known with an occasional rustle.
606	Heart of Fire	Heartstone	"Quest Item: The Heart of Fire is a gem of pure elemental force clear of imperfections and weighing at least a hundred carets. No doubt, a magic item made from it would be incredibly potent."
607	Heart of Water	Heartstone	"Quest Item: The Heart of Water is a gem of pure elemental force clear of imperfections and weighing at least a hundred carets. No doubt, a magic item made from it would be incredibly potent."
608	Heart of Air	Heartstone	"Quest Item: The Heart of Air is a gem of pure elemental force clear of imperfections and weighing at least a hundred carets. No doubt, a magic item made from it would be incredibly potent."
609	Heart of Earth	Heartstone	"Quest Item: The Heart of Earth is a gem of pure elemental force clear of imperfections and weighing at least a hundred carets. No doubt, a magic item made from it would be incredibly potent."
610	Conflux Key	Key	"Quest Item: Using the four elemental heart gems, Xanthor made you this interplaner key of extreme power. He tells you it will open the crystal gateway which connects Ravenshore to the mysterious Plane Between Planes."
611	Lost Book of Kehl	Book	"Quest Item: The formerly ""Lost"" Book of Kehl. Some say he was the greatest necromancer of the last age. Staring at the intricately embossed cover is a disquieting experience as the design seems to writhe with evil energy."
612	Sarcophagus of Korbu	Sarcophagus	"Quest Item: Though painstakingly carved from a single slab of gray stone, Korbu's sarcophagus is inexplicably, much lighter in weight than seems possible. Removal of the snug fitting lid produces a powerful exhalation of myrrh and stale crypt air."
613	Puzzle Box	Box	"Quest Item: No matter how you move the shifting panels of this small inlaid box, its lid remains shut. When you shake it, you can hear something rattling around inside. It sounds like a large nut or bead."
614	Vial of Grave Earth	Vial	Quest Item: This is the vial of dirt you stole from the vampire crypt in Shadowspire.
615	Drum of Victory	Drum	"Quest Item: This magical items properties are unknown to you. When you tap the drum's head with one of its sticks, the resulting beat resonates with echoes that seem to reflect from the ceiling of the sky."
616	Anointed Herb Potion	Potion Bottle	"Quest Item: Though possessing no magical properties, this potion's ingredients have been gathered under the most stringent ritual conditions. The thornbark powder, for example, was ground in a silver mortar from bark stripped during the peak of a high noon eclipse. The whole concoction has sat in the seer's personal shrine for more than a hundred years."
617	Power Stone	Stone	Quest Item: A facet carved stone of dark glassy rock. When tapped it produces a high bell tone.
618	Power Stone	Stone	Quest Item: A facet carved stone of dark glassy rock. When tapped it produces a medium bell tone.
619	Pirate Leader's Key	Key	Quest Item: The key you took from Blackwell Cooper's body.
620	Prison Key	Key	Quest Item: A key of the type commonly used for dungeon cell door locks.
621	Prison Key	Key	Quest Item: A key of the type commonly used for dungeon cell door locks.
622	quest item 622	0	quest item 622
623	Gem of Restoration	Gem	"Quest Item: This large ruby is of perfect quality, clear throughout with an even pigeon blood red. It contains a powerful enchantment and pulses with a slumbering heartbeat rhythm."
624	Charged connector stone	Gem	Smooth half-transparent connector stone charged by time traveling.
625	Connector stone	Gem	Smooth stone without specific color.
626	Prophecies of the Sun	Book	"Quest Item: The writing inside this book reads like the ranting of a madman. Still, someone must have thought highly of it. The text is entirely hand scribed in a florid style. Inset illuminations bring to life scenes from the story which are, in turn, disturbing, outlandish or seemingly drawn from nightmare."
627	Remains of Korbu	Remains	"Quest Item: The remains of Korbu who some claim was the most powerful vampire of all times. He's not much to look at now, however. His skeleton has been almost completely dismantled--either by design or the ravages of time, and a wooden stake is nestled entirely within the ribcage."
628	Lich Jar	Jar	Quest Item: A well made jar.
629	Ring of Keys	Ring of Keys	Quest Item: Both the keys and ring are made of a metal you've never encountered before. The gemstones inset in the key heads are familiar to you. They are elemental heartstones like those incorporated in the conflux key Xanthor made for you.
630	Idol of the Snake	Idol	Quest Item: An Idol of the ancient snake god who was worshipped by the Serpentmen who used to dwell on the Dagger Wound Islands.
631	Big Brass Ring	Ring	Quest Item: A large ring of polished brass. It seems to be part of a door knocker.
632	Naga Hide	Hide	The skinned and scraped hide of a naga.
633	Dire Wolf Pelt	Pelt	The skinned and scraped hide of a dire wolf.
634	Flute	Flute	Quest Item: A well crafted instrument.
635	Royal Wasp Jelly	Jelly	A jar of royal wasp jelly.
636	Dragonbane Flower	Dragonbane Flower	Quest Item: A fresh dragonbane flower. The petals are thick and waxy.
637	Bone of Doom	Bone	"Quest Item: The arm bone of the legendary necromancer, Zacharia. It is infused with the death magician's evil energy."
638	Druid Circlet of Power	Circlet	A legendary item rumored to be from the time of the Ancients.  Only someone with the power of a Grand Druid can wear this item.
639	Arcane Key	Key	Quest Item: A gem containing an unfocused magical energy.
640	Wyvern Horn	Horn	A horn taken from a wyvern.
641	Ogre Key	Key	Quest Item: A gem containing an unfocused magical energy.
642	Pirate Hat	Hat	"Quest Item: A sea raider captain's hat. Inside the band are stitched the words ""D. P. Stanley."""
643	Tobersk Fruit	Fruit	The fruit of the tobersk bush which only grows on the Dagger Wound Islands. It is the main export item of the islands' Lizardmen.
644	Tobersk Pulp	Pulp	Pulp made from Dagger Wound Islands grown tobersk fruit.
645	Tobersk Brandy	Brandy	Brandy made from the processed pulp of Dagger Wound Islands grown tobersk fruit.
646	Heartwood of Jadame	Wood	The cooler climate of the Murmurwood forest causes the trees there to grow with a tight grain. These lumbered planks are of the clear grained heartwood.
647	Flawed Amulets	Crate	A crate of from the Shadowspire artificers. Small flaws in workmanship have made them incapable of holding enchantments.
648	Dried Sunfish	Crate	"A crate of dried sunfish harvested from the Ifarine Sea. Some find the chewy, salty fish a delicacy."
649	Silver Dust of the Sea	Crate	"A crate full of bagged Silver Dust. Made by the Necromancers' Guild, it is said to have value to some sea travelers."
650	Forged Vouchers	Vouchers	Forged credit documents used by the ogre mage Zog to embezzle gold from Alvarian merchant customers.
651	Ground Wyvern Horn	Ground Wyvern Horn	A powerful potion reagent used by the Necromancers of Shadowspire.
652	Prophecies of the Snake	Book	"Quest Item: One of many books of prophecy circulating recently, the Prophecies of the Snake may indeed tell the future of Jadame."
653	Ogre Ear	Ear	"Used to keep track of kills, some bounty hunters collect these gruesome reminders of battles past."
654	Wasp Stingers	Stinger	The stinger of a giant wasp.
655	Green Apple	Apple	"Jadamean green apples are crunchy, slightly tart and a good source of nutrition.  (To use the apple, pick it up and left-click over a character's portrait in the inventory screen.)"
656	Horseshoe	Horseshoe	"This flawless horseshoe is made of silver.  (To use, pick the horseshoe up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
657	Enchanted Amulet	Amulet	"A pretty bauble favored by the Pirates of Regna for it appearance, not for any magical enchantment it may have."
658	Wheel of Frelandeau	Cheese	"Quest Item: A wheel of prized unicorn's-milk frelandeau cheese. Sliced onto crackers, it is the perfect compliment to a snifter of fine tobersk brandy."
659	Log of Eldenbrie	Cheese	"Quest Item: A log of Vori eldenbrie cheese. Though many have tried to duplicate its subtle, smoky flavor, only the master Frost Giant cheese masters of the frozen Vori wastes know the secrets of its formulation."
660	Ball of Dunduck	Cheese	"Quest Item: A ball of dunduck cheese. Made in small batches by the goblins of Erathia, most consider it an acquired taste."
661	Emperor Thorn's Key	Key	Quest Item: The key you took from the Unicorn King's body.
662	Cannonball of Dominion	Cannonball	Quest Item: The strange cannonball you took from the Regnan fortress. It is unlike any ammunition you've seen before.
663	Infused Metal Rod	Metal Rod	Metal stick.
664	Large Round Crystal	Round crystal	Large smooth and perfectly round crystal.
665	Whisp wrappings	Whisp wrappings	Pieces of rotten cloth.
666	Telelocator	Telelocator	Metal stick with smooth gem on top of it.
667	quest item 667	0	quest item 667
668	quest item 668	0	quest item 668
669	quest item 669	0	quest item 669
670	quest item 670	0	quest item 670
671	quest item 671	0	quest item 671
672	quest item 672	0	quest item 672
673	quest item 673	0	quest item 673
674	quest item 674	0	quest item 674
675	quest item 675	0	quest item 675
676	quest item 676	0	quest item 676
677	quest item 677	0	quest item 677
678	quest item 678	0	quest item 678
679	quest item 679	0	quest item 679
680	quest item 680	0	quest item 680
681	quest item 681	0	quest item 681
682	quest item 682	0	quest item 682
683	quest item 683	0	quest item 683
684	quest item 684	0	quest item 684
685	quest item 685	0	quest item 685
686	Iron-laced ore	Lump of Ore	"A small chunk of iron-laced ore.  In the hands of a skilled craftsman, this could make a weapon, an amulet, a ring, armor, or almost any other useful item."
687	Siertal-laced ore	Lump of Ore	"A small chunk of siertal-laced ore.  Stronger and lighter than steel, in the hands of a skilled craftsman siertal could make an exceptional weapon, an amulet, a ring, armor, or almost any other useful item."
688	Phylt-laced ore	Lump of Ore	"A small chunk of phylt-laced ore.  Phylt is often used in steel alloys to increase the durability and enchantability of steel.  In the hands of a skilled craftsman phylt could make a weapon, an amulet, a ring, armor, or almost any other useful item."
689	Kergar-laced ore	Lump of Ore	"A small chunk of kergar-laced ore.  Kergar shares many properties of steel, but is much easier to enchant.  In the hands of a skilled craftsman kergar could easily make a magical weapon, an amulet, a ring, armor, or almost any other item."
690	Erudine-laced ore	Lump of Ore	"A small chunk of erudine-laced ore.  A rare magical ore found in few regions of Erathia, in the hands of a skilled craftsman erudine could make a powerful weapon, an amulet, a ring, armor, or almost any other item."
691	Stalt-laced ore	Lump of Ore	"A small chunk of stalt-laced ore.  Easy to enchant and as hard as obsidian, in the hands of a skilled craftsman stalt could make an incredibly powerful weapon, an amulet, a ring, armor, or almost any other item."
692	quest item 692	0	quest item 692
693	quest item 693	0	quest item 693
694	quest item 694	0	quest item 694
695	quest item 695	0	quest item 695
696	quest item 696	0	quest item 696
697	quest item 697	0	quest item 697
698	quest item 698	0	quest item 698
699	quest item 699	0	quest item 699
700	Rejuvenation Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
701	Pure Might Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
702	Pure Accuracy Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
703	Pure Personality Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
704	Pure Endurance Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
705	Pure Intellect Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
706	Pure Speed Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
707	Pure Luck Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
708	Slaying Potion Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
709	Stone To Flesh Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
710	Might Boost Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
711	Intellect Boost Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
712	Personality Boost Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
713	Endurance Boost Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
714	Speed Boost Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
715	Accuracy Boost Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
716	Flaming Potion Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
717	Freezing Potion Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
718	Noxious Potion Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
719	Shocking Potion Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
720	Swift Potion Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
721	Cure Paralysis Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
722	Divine Restoration Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
723	Divine Cure Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
724	Divine Power Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
725	Luck Boost Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
726	Fire Resistance Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
727	Air Resistance Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
728	Water Resistance Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
729	Earth Resistance Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
730	Mind Resistance Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
731	Body Resistance Recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
732	Certificate of Authentication	Certificate	"A certificate written by Dadeross. (To read it, pick up the certificate and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
733	Journal Scrap	Journal Scrap	"A page torn from a travel journal. (To read it, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
734	Journal Scrap	Journal Scrap	"A page torn from a travel journal. (To read it, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
735	Journal Scrap	Journal Scrap	"A page torn from a travel journal. (To read it, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
736	Journal Scrap	Journal Scrap	"A page torn from a travel journal. (To read it, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
737	Journal Scrap	Journal Scrap	"A page torn from a travel journal. (To read it, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
738	Journal Scrap	Journal Scrap	"A page torn from a travel journal. (To read it, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
739	Journal Scrap	Journal Scrap	"A page torn from a travel journal. (To read it, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
740	Journal Scrap	Journal Scrap	"A page torn from a travel journal. (To read it, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
741	Dadeross' Letter to Fellmoon	Letter	"Quest Item: A letter from Dadeross to Elgar Fellmoon.  (To read the letter, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
742	Blackmail Letter	Letter	"Quest Item: A letter from Elgar Fellmoon to Arion Hunter.  (To read the letter, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
743	Journal Scrap	Journal Scrap	"A page from an otherwise ruined journal found in an abandoned camp in Alvar. (To read, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
744	History of the Vault of Time	History Book	"A book about The Vault of Time. (To read, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
745	Dagger Wound Oddities	Journal Notes	"Journal notes written in Frederick Talimere's hand. (To read, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
746	Letter to Arion Hunter	Letter	"A letter to Arion Hunter from Zog (To read, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
747	Page Torn from a Book	Torn Page	"A page torn from a book. You found it in the Merchant House Library. (To read, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
748	Notes - Emergency Meeting	Notes	"A rolled parchment of hastily scrawled notes. (To read, pick up the scroll and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
749	Cannon Design Notes	Notes	"Notes you found in the Regnan fortress. (To read, pick up the scroll and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
750	Old Scroll	Scroll	"The scroll you found in the Abandoned Temple seems centuries old. (To read, pick it up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
751	Divine Boost recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
752	Divine Protection recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
753	Divine Transcendence recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
754	Essence of Luck recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
755	Potion of the Gods recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
756	Potion of Doom recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
757	Pure Fire Resistance recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
758	Pure Air Resistance recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
759	Pure Water Resistance recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
760	Pure Earth Resistance recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
761	Pure Mind Resistance recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
762	Pure Body Resistance recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
763	Essence of Might recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
764	Essence of Intellect recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
765	Essence of Personality recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
766	Essence of Accuracy recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
767	Essence of Endurance recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
768	Essence of Speed recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
769	Protection from Magic recipe	Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
770	Letter for YOU.	Letter	"Letter. Your name written on the front side. (To read it, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
771	Letter for YOU.	Letter	"Letter. Your name written on the front side. (To read it, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
772	Letter for YOU.	Letter	"Letter. Your name written on the front side. (To read it, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
773	message scroll 773	0	0
774	Scavenger hunt.	Advertisment	"A message scroll.  (To read this message, pick the scroll up and right-click over a character's portrait.)"
775	message scroll 775	0	0
776	message scroll 776	0	0
777	message scroll 777	0	0
778	message scroll 778	0	0
779	message scroll 779	0	0
780	message scroll 780	0	0
781	message scroll 781	0	0
782	message scroll 782	0	0
783	message scroll 783	0	0
784	message scroll 784	0	0
785	message scroll 785	0	0
786	message scroll 786	0	0
787	message scroll 787	0	0
788	message scroll 788	0	0
789	message scroll 789	0	0
790	message scroll 790	0	0
791	message scroll 791	0	0
792	message scroll 792	0	0
793	message scroll 793	0	0
794	message scroll 794	0	0
795	message scroll 795	0	0
796	message scroll 796	0	0
797	message scroll 797	0	0
798	message scroll 798	0	
799	message scroll 799	0	
800	Wheel of Frelandeau	Wheel of Frelandeau	"A wheel of prized unicorn's-milk frelandeau cheese. Sliced onto crackers, it is the perfect compliment to a snifter of fine tobersk brandy."
801	Log of Eldenbrie	Log of Eldenbrie	"A log of Vori eldenbrie cheese. Though many have tried to duplicate its subtle, smoky flavor, only the master Frost Giant cheese masters of the frozen Vori wastes know the secrets of its formulation."
802	Ball of Dunduck	Ball of Dunduck	"A ball of dunduck cheese. Made in small batches by the goblins of Erathia, most consider it an acquired taste."
803	Crude Longsword	Longsword	"Though notched and dented, this longsword is still an effective weapon."
804	Elven Saber	Saber	"A common elven weapon, this saber is a deadly, if unremarkable, weapon."
805	Keen Longsword	Longsword	"Although this longsword appears quite old, the edge of the blade is unusually sharp.  It was quite probably enchanted to remain that way during its creation."
806	Graceful Sword	Longsword	"An high quality longsword, monogrammed initials near the base of the pommel indicate it was forged by master weaponsmith Mekorig the Blind circa 780-800."
807	Duelist Blade	Longsword	"These rare blades were forged sometime before the Silence, and have been used by noble duelists who want to die in style for centuries.  No two are quite alike, but all share bloody histories."
808	Two-Handed Sword	Two-Handed Sword	This simple two-handed sword with a leather grip is a common design in Erathia.
809	Great Sword	Two-Handed Sword	"An effective, deadly design employed by less well disciplined armies throughout time.  The smith of this particular two-handed sword thoughtfully added a blood groove down the center of the blade."
810	Heroic Sword	Two-Handed Sword	"It is thought by some master swordsmen that a wavy blade is a bit stronger than a straight one, and does more damage when it strikes an opponent.  That may or may not be true, but one thing is certain--this particular sword's craftsmanship is amongst the finest you've ever seen."
811	Broadsword	Broadsword	A polished broadsword commonly used by all forces in Erathia.
812	Steel Broadsword	Broadsword	A fine Erathian steel broadsword of excellent quality and edge.
813	Champion Sword	Broadsword	"More a falchion than a broadsword, this magnificent weapon retains a keen edge in spite of its age."
814	Cutlass	Cutlass	The swept-back style of the cutlass helps opponents underestimate the weapon's true reach.  Many unexperienced swordsmen have lost their lives to this deceptive design.
815	Goblin Cutlass	Cutlass	"A strange mix of brass and some other, reddish metal provide this weapon with its strange color and unusual strength.  Goblin craftsman are typically unconcerned with appearance, but when it comes to killing, they can be counted on to get it right.  "
816	Regnan Cutlass	Cutlass	"Cleverly concealed initials near the pommel of this cutlass prove this beautiful weapon to be the work of Alec Teling, master smith to Hareck IX, Lord of Regna, and emperor of the Endless Ocean."
817	Dagger	Dagger	A crude dagger found in the hands of thieves and ruffians everywhere.
818	Dwarven Dagger	Dagger	"More like a short sword to a dwarf, this dagger is an excellent example of superior dwarven engineering and inferior artistic creativity."
819	Sharktooth Dagger	Dagger	The 'blade' of this dagger is really a sharks' tooth taken from the waters of the Quiet Ocean and mounted on a fancy handle.  It is very sharp and light.
820	Assassin's Dagger	Dagger	The crosspiece of this dagger folds in to make concealment easier.  A spring in the pommel snaps the crosspiece out very quietly when the dagger is drawn from its sheath.
821	Mage Dagger	Dagger	"A weapon from the Time of Wonders, it is no longer possible to achieve a sharper or stronger edge."
822	Long Dagger	Long Dagger	The long dagger combines the extra reach of the sword with the stealth of the dagger.
823	Erathian Long Dagger	Long Dagger	"Really more of a short sword than a dagger, the narrow blade belies an unusual strength and a possibly enchanted edge."
824	Exquisite Long Dagger	Long Dagger	"The spare, yet appealing design of this long dagger is typical of pre-Silence artifacts.  This particular style was very popular at the time, but since more than a thousand years have passed, few remain.  Like everything from the time of the Silence, it looks as new as the day it was made."
825	Crude Axe	Axe	This primitive axe is more like a simple tool than a weapon.
826	Battle Axe	Axe	The flared edge of the blade is a common style used by low budget human armies and bandits.
827	Dwarven Axe	Axe	"Typical Dwarven manufacture:  Strong, practical, and plain."
828	Steel Axe	Axe	"One of several crates full of such axes stolen from the Dwarves by the Warlocks of Nighon.  Each of these weapons has been tempered and enchanted by the Stone City foundry, and stamped with their mark."
829	Minotaur Axe	Axe	"Double bladed axes like these are powerfully enchanted by Minotaur sorcerers in a secret process known only to them.  These axes are light where they should be heavy, and slice through metal armor as easily as they slice through cloth."
830	Poleaxe	Two-Handed Axe	This style of long hafted axe has better reach and more power than the normal one-handed axe.
831	Warrior's Poleaxe	Two-Handed Axe	"This poleaxe has a sharper blade equipped with all the latest in military technology:  Blood grooves, whistle-holes, and a counterbalanced, smaller blade behind the haft for tricky, disembowling, backstrokes."
832	Headsman's Poleaxe	Two-Handed Axe	"So named for the execution device favored by headsmen, the Headsman's Poleaxe sports a longer blade to reduce messy and embarassing execution mistakes.  "
833	Crude Spear	Spear	"Though constructed with a head of sharpened rock lashed to a rough stick, this spear can cause serious damage. (+1D9 if used two-handed)."
834	Soldier's spear	Spear	Spears like this are found in all armies where their versatility as both pole and melee weapons are demonstrated regulary.
835	Elven Spear	Spear	"Elven weapons are almost always as graceful as they are practical.  The spear's style and elegance have not come at the expense of practical qualities such as the sturdy attachement of head to haft, nor the choices of metal and haft grip."
836	Cruel Spear	Spear	The triangular shape of the spear head leads to especially painful wounds that do not heal easily or well.  Runic enchantments inscribed along the haft suggest enchantments that enhance the cruel effect of the triangular head.
837	Sublime Spear	Spear	A smithy symbol and date stamp indicate this spear was made in the magical forges of Governor Padish 12 years before the Silence.
838	Old Halberd	Halberd	"Like all Halberds, this weapon is basically an axe with a very long haft.  It's a versatile weapon--doubling as a spear when fighting room is tight, or a staff when personal defense is needed.  This one is of ordinary worksmanship and materials."
839	Weighted Halberd	Halberd	"The haft of this halberd has been cored, and filled with a lead rod.  When the weapon is swung, the lead rod slides to the blade end of the halberd with a loud crack, adding force and weight to the blow."
840	Mighty Halberd	Halberd	"A small stamp on the blade of this weapon indicates it was constructed in the famous Mekorig Foundry by the master himself, Mekorig the Blind.  You would be hard pressed to find a finer Halberd anywhere in the world "
841	Crude Trident	Trident	"A variant of the farmer's pitchfork, the trident had been used by spear fishermen since time began.  Now it is the traditional weapon of sea-going warriors throughout the world."
842	Barbed Trident	Trident	"Improving on the basic trident design, the tips of the tines have rough, backwards facing barbs.  This designs causes much more damage as the weapon is pulled from the victim."
843	War Trident	Trident	"A style favored by the Imerial Regnan Navy, the two side tines of the war trident are thin and sharp to make slashing as easy as stabbing.  To further impress enemies, the tines are gilded in brass, and the haft painted yellow, giving the appearance that the Regnans are fighting with golden weapons."
844	Crude Bow	Longbow	A simple longbow constructed of common materials and uninspired design.
845	Longbow	Longbow	"A higher quality long bow designed after the elven long bow, but without the elven skill."
846	Elven Longbow	Longbow	Etched initials at the base of the bow indicate this bow was made by master bowyer Ivan Selving's workshop during the Timber Wars of the late 600's.
847	Composite Bow	Longbow	"Composite bows are made of a variety of materials and pieces, instead of a single piece of wood.  They are generally more flexible and powerful than regular bows."
848	Griffin Bow	Longbow	"The grisly materials used in this bow--a griffin's skull and tough spine--make for a surprisingly tough and powerful bow.  Needless to say, the materials are hard to harvest, and griffins fight back much harder than Yew trees."
849	Crude Crossbow	Crossbow	"Although crossbows have many advantages--locking string catches, superior shot strength, easy to learn--they don't compare to the longbow when speed and range are critical.  "
850	Heavy Crossbow	Crossbow	"These crossbows were stockpiled by Archibald just prior to the Succession War for use against his brother.  As with most decisions involving death, Archibald chose wisely.  These crossbows are amongst the best in the land."
851	Ideal Crossbow	Crossbow	"Equipped with a hand crank and shaft sights, these exceptional crossbows are superior to all that have come before.  Just where they are coming from is a mystery at this time"
852	Crude Mace	Mace	"Barely more sophisticated than a normal club, the mace is slightly more effective and much more durable."
853	Spiked Mace	Mace	This weapon is designed to inflict good damage to both armored and unarmored opponents.
854	Zealot Mace	Mace	"A common mace from Karigor, it displays the same superior quality of all weapons and equipment from that island."
855	Dwarven Morningstar	Mace	"A variation of the mace, the morningstar hits slower but much harder.  The spikes on the ball guarantee recipients will feel the blow, regardless of armor or hide."
856	Supreme Flail	Mace	"A heavier, more menacing weapon than a morningstar, flails are almost as dangerous to their wielder as they are to opponents.  Flails like this one are of the highest quality, thoroughly enchanted by the Warlock Guild of Nighon."
857	Hammer	Hammer	"A crude, tool-like weapon, this hammer includes a wrist chain to prevent it from dropping from your hand."
858	War Hammer	Hammer	"A step up in construction quality, these hammers are commonly wielded by humanoid monsters.  Since everyone knows most monsters don't make weapons, the question 'from where are they getting them?' arises"
859	Dwarven Hammer	Hammer	"The top of the line for the hammer family of weapons.  This Dwarven hammer was constructed in the forges of Stone City, and every feature is perfect--balance, weight, handle material, head construction--all the best possible with modern metalurgical techniques."
860	Club	Club	A primitive weapon usable by even the stupidest of monsters.  This club is constructed of Erathian oak.
861	Spiked Club	Club	"An improvement over the simple club, this spiked club will inflict nastier wounds."
862	Steel club	Club	"The symmetry and length of the knob at the end of the club is the only feature that distinguishes this club from a mace.  The balance is good, the construction is solid, but it IS still a club, and you can't expect that much from it.  Probably of Goblin manufacture."
863	Simple Staff	Staff	The staff is the common weapon of the oppressed.
864	Iron Core Staff	Staff	"This staff has been filled with iron to give a harder punch than an ordinary staff, while appearing to be nothing more than a fancy walking stick.  The wood is polished Ash, carved with a tasteful design."
865	Wizard Staff	Staff	"A weird combination of wood, glass and aluminum form the staff, while a crystalline skull tops it.  The whole weapon is bound together with glue and strong enchantments to make one of the lightest, strongest staves in the world."
866	Blaster	Ancient Weapon	"A weapon of awesome power, almost certainly created during the Time of Wonders.  "
867	Blaster Rifle	Ancient Weapon	"The finest of personal weapons made during the Time of Wonders, Blaster Rifles can deal death faster than any weapon you have ever seen."
868	Crude Leather Armor	Leather Armor	"Leather armor is the lightest and most easily worn armor, but it offers less protection that the heavier armors.  The leather in this suit was improperly cured and still stinks of the chemicals used in its production."
869	Studded Leather	Leather Armor	"This suit of leather armor is held together with bronze studs instead of leather straps.  This construction makes it a bit stronger, but also a bit heavier."
870	Officer's Leather	Leather Armor	"An otherwise ordinary suit of leather armor, this suit is imbued with a subtle enchantment that strengthens the material against blows without increasing weight."
871	Regnan Leather	Leather Armor	Standard issue leather armor for officers in the Regnan Navy.  All such leather armor receives enchantments to strengthen and lighten it during its creation in the Regnan Armories.
872	Royal Leather	Leather Armor	"Only a few suits like this one have been made, and all were special orders for members of the royal family of Erathia--the Gryphonhearts.  This one had to come from one of three places:  Stolen from the palace armory, taken on the battlefield, or robbed from a grave."
873	Disheveled Chain Mail	Chain Mail	"Chain mail is an armor formed of small, interlocking loops of metal.  It looks like someone forgot to oil the rings, or maybe left it out in the rain because rust has begun to form in the armpits and under the collars."
874	Quality Steel Chain Mail	Chain Mail	"This suit of chain mail is made of steel and is actually lighter than similar suits made of plain iron.  Thin rings were used in its construction, but the steel composition makes them very strong."
875	Fine Chain Mail	Chain Mail	Very high quality steel is reinforced with fine studded leather to soften blows while minimizing weight.  The leather portions are quite artistic and pleasing to the eye.
876	Resplendent Chain Mail	Chain Mail	"A distinctive suit of armor meant to aid recognition of officers during battle.  Besides just looking good, the armor is amongst the lightest, most supple chain mail available.  "
877	Golden Chain Mail	Chain Mail	"A very rare suit of armor turned out by the Heavenly Forges of Governor Padish before the Silence.  The armor was originally worn strictly by the Governor's highest military officers as a badge of office.  It is not just for show; this chain mail is lighter, stronger, and more supple than any other chain in the world."
878	Plate Armor	Plate Armor	"Plate armor is the strongest armor available.  It is much heavier than other suits of armor, and requires considerable practice to get used to wearing.  This suit is made of iron, and the workmanship is unremarkable."
879	Splendid Plate Armor	Plate Armor	"Forged in an Erathian armory, this suit of plate armor bears a recent stamp:  B.R., Steadwick Foundry, 1151.  The initials are those of Byron Rockermann, Royal armorsmith of Erathia.  His work is competent and elegant."
880	Noble Plate Armor	Plate Armor	"A suit of armor so fine could only have come from the forge of the Master himself--Mekorig the Blind.  Indeed, this one bears the initials of his son, Kasev Mekorig near the heel.  The joints move easily, and the metal has a curious triple plated construction that makes it thin and light, yet incredibly strong.  Padding in comfortable, too."
881	Goblin Shield	Large Shield	"A simple, old shield with crude markings on its face.  Ugly, but practical."
882	Wooden Shield	Large Shield	"This shield is made of wood framed by iron.  It is heavy, but well constructed and in good condition."
883	Horseman's Shield	Large Shield	"Narrow and tapered at the bottom, this shield is intended for battle on horseback, but will work just fine on foot.  Construction is tight and materials are tough--it should be able to resist a direct spear thrust."
884	Sterling Shield	Large Shield	"Made of a lightweight metal, this shield has a foundry stamp from the Kelebrim armory.  Though light, the material is very strong, and the metal is welded almost seamlessly.  "
885	Phynaxian Shield	Large Shield	"These shields were forged by the Phynaxian empire during its brief rise to power on the steppes of southern Erathia (790-864).  They are made of stalt, a metal that takes well to enchantment, and contributed heavily to Phynaxian military might.  Unfortunately, very little of the metal could be mined, and Phynaxia fell in 864 A.S. to an Elvish offensive."
886	Wooden Buckler	Small Shield	"A small wood buckler designed to protect against arrows without encumbering its wielder.  The quality is amaturish, but it's in good condition and will serve its purpose."
887	Bronze Shield	Small Shield	"Bronze shields are lighter than iron shields of the same size, but aren't nearly as strong."
888	Metal Shield	Small Shield	"The pretty red design on the surface of this shield means it's from Deyja, and the paint isn't paint.  Emulsifiers and preservatives help to retain the original color"
889	Alloyed Shield	Small Shield	The exact mixture of metals in these strong shields has been lost for hundreds of years.  Attempts to rediscover the process used to make them have been miserable failures.  There is absolutely nothing enchanted or magical about these shields--any enchantment they carry was added after they were created.  
890	Majestic Shield	Small Shield	"The dark, golden color of these shields is actually a flaw.  About fifty of these shields were turned out by the Heavenly Forge as it began to fail.  Although imperfect, they are second only to shields built by the Forge in its prime."
891	Horned Helm	Helm	"This cheap helm is better suited for a costume party than a battle.  The horns have been glued onto a rigid leather cap dyed black to make it look scarier.  The material is brittle and flaky, and will probably come apart at just the wrong time."
892	Conscript's Helm	Helm	"The simple style and uniformity of these helms is meant to strike terror into the hearts of enemies when they see row upon row of bronze, spiked helms marching toward them.  "
893	Full Helm	Helm	This helm design has been used by the Elves of Erathia since before the Silence.  It is composed of silver and steel and is very strong.
894	Phynaxian Helm	Helm	"Worn by Phynaxian Dragoons during the expansion of their empire a few hundred years ago, these helms are tough, flexible, and light.  They are made of two strips of dragonhide bound together with stalt metal studs."
895	Mogred Helm	Helm	"Half made from the skull of the ferocious Mogred beast in Karigor, these helms grow more uncommon every year as the Mogreds approach extinction.  Two poisonous spines used to grow from the red spots on the front of the helm."
896	Peasant Hat	Hat	"A common, cloth hat with a feather stuck in the band to add a dash of style."
897	Traveller's Hat	Hat	A simple hat meant to keep sun and dust off a traveller's head.
898	Fancy Hat	Hat	"The latest in fashion, this hat harkens back to more of a working class style.  It isn't really the hat that's in style, it's the working man that young nobles are trying to emulate--who in turn seeks to emulate the nobleman"
899	Crown	Crown	"This is a cheap crown of the sort that primitive goblins wear to mock human customs.  The metal is bronze, and the gem is made of glass."
900	Noble Crown	Crown	"A fine, if somewhat ostentatious crown made with gold leaf and large, high quality amythests.  It suits nobles of your station well."
901	Regal Crown	Crown	"Crowns of this sort are typically created with the use of magic to enhance their susceptibility to magic.  If found with no enchantments whatsoever, the crown was probably left unfinished for some reason. "
902	Leather Belt	Belt	A peasant's belt.  This one is made of poorly cured leather and rusting iron studs.
903	Fine Belt	Belt	A well crafted belt of well tanned leather and fine stitching.  The buckle is made of polished silver.
904	Strong Belt	Belt	"A tough, yet high quality leather belt.  This one was probably made in western Erathia.  "
905	Silver Belt	Belt	"A very nicely made silver belt, this one is old, but well cared for.  There's no trace of tarnish on any of the links--just a bit of wear around the buckle."
906	Gilded Belt	Belt	"Gaudy to an extreme, this belt is made of sold 14 karet gold.  Each link has a different, low quality image stamped on its face.  Tasteless, but valuable."
907	Leather Cloak	Cloak	A simple traveller's cloak.
908	Huntsman's Cloak	Cloak	"A huntsman's cloak colored green to make the wearer difficult to see in the forest.  Not much to look at, but it serves its purpose."
909	Ranger's Cloak	Cloak	"Woven from plant fibers found in the Tularean Forest, these cloaks are the traditional garb of the Elven Rangers."
910	Elegant Cloak	Cloak	This cloak is of the quality preferred by wealthy nobles and royalty.  It is hard to find better.
911	Glorious Cloak	Cloak	Almost all cloaks like this one come with some sort of enchantment.  The Warlocks of Nighon employ legions of mentally enslaved people to perform the tedious weaving and ritual spell casting necessary to make these cloaks.
912	Gauntlets	Gauntlets	Low quality iron gauntlets with cloth linings to prevent blisters.  
913	Steel Gauntlets	Gauntlets	This pair of gauntlets is made of steel and decorated with brass tracery along the outside of the palm and back of the hand.  It is in good repair and well oiled.
914	Silver Mesh Gauntlets	Gauntlets	"A marvelous achievement, these gauntlets were forged and woven by the Dwarves of Stone City.  The offer both flexibility and strong protection.  The only trouble is that the wearer's skin is sometimes caught in the mesh, leading to painful pinches."
915	Dragon Hide Gauntlets	Gauntlets	"A high quality gauntlet, it offers both flexibility and protection.  The joints are reinforced, yet are 'soft' enough to permit nearly normal hand motion."
916	Mogred Gauntlets	Gauntlets	"Made from the hide of the Mogred beast on Karigor, these gauntlets are tough, supple, and magic resistant.  The two red spots used to have poisonous spines growing from them."
917	Leather Boots	Boots	"These boots are made of soft leather for a more comfortable fit, but they offer little protection in combat."
918	Steel Plated Boots	Boots	This pair of leather boots has been fitted with steel plates on the top of the foot and at the shin.
919	Ranger Boots	Boots	"A quality set of Erathian leather boots.  This pair has the usual features of Erathian leather craftsmanship:  Soft, water resistant, and quiet.  "
920	Knight's Boots	Boots	"Polished silver boots with velvet interiors, these boots are lighter than steel boots and far more comfortable.  They look pretty snappy, too."
921	Paladin Boots	Boots	"Made in the forge of Byron Rockermann, these silver and steel boots are amongst the best in the world.  The are enormously strong, yet fit comfortable and flexibly in all the right spots."
922	Brass Ring	Ring	"A tarnished brass ring.  Polished up, you might be able to sell it for somethingbut don't expect much."
923	Pearl Ring	Ring	"A large, imperfect pearl adorns this otherwise unremarkable gold ring."
924	Platinum Ring	Ring	"At first glance silver, this ring is actually made of platinum.  The gemstone is a small, flawed diamond."
925	Emerald Ring	Ring	"A large, cut emerald adorns an otherwise plain silver ring."
926	Sapphire Ring	Ring	Three small sapphires are mounted at the top of this silver and gold ring.  Rings of this quality are often enchanted.
927	Warlock's Ring	Ring	"This complex and gaudy arrangement of amythests on platinum can be appealing, if you like that sort of thing."
928	Enchanted Ring	Ring	A rare gem-within-gem of emerald and garnet is set upon a fine gold ring.
929	Dazzling Ring	Ring	A beautiful rosetta of rubies and emeralds on gold backing.  The ring itself is platinum.
930	Wizard Ring	Ring	Three perfect garnets set into silver belie the enchantments used to create this ring.  Handling the ring for long makes your hand tingle.
931	Angel's Ring	Ring	"A very strange brown stone (petrified wood?) is mounted on a metal that looks like gold, but is much lighter."
932	Eyeball Amulet	Amulet	"This strange amulet has a glass eye on the end of a cheap brass chain.  A novelty, but probably not worth much."
933	Bronze Amulet	Amulet	"A baroque bronze amulet with an ill define image stamped on the face.  Cheap, and tasteless."
934	Witch's Amulet	Amulet	A plaster cast of a baby's hand was used to form this strange silver amulet.  There is some unidentifiable symbol stamped in the center of the amulet.
935	Death's Head Pendant	Amulet	"Straight out of Deyja, this is just the sort of thing you would expect from Necromancers.  The silver skull in the center is modeled from a real, shrunken skull, and the tiny rubies in the eyes glow in the dark."
936	Sun Amulet	Amulet	"A glorious gold amulet with the ancient symbol of the sun in the center.  The amulet is from Karigor, and the craftsmanship is flawless."
937	Wand of Fire	Wand	"The magical process that was used to enchant this wand turned it sky blue.  It's made of wood and glass.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
938	Wand of Sparks	Wand	"The magical process that was used to enchant this wand turned it sky blue.  It's made of wood and glass.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
939	Wand of Poison	Wand	"The magical process that was used to enchant this wand turned it sky blue.  It's made of wood and glass.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
940	Wand of Stunning	Wand	"The magical process that was used to enchant this wand turned it sky blue.  It's made of wood and glass.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
941	Wand of Harm	Wand	"The magical process that was used to enchant this wand turned it sky blue.  It's made of wood and glass.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
942	Fairy Wand of Light	Wand	"A wooden wand painted green and banded with brass.  The wand is capped with a large, flawed emerald.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
943	Fairy Wand of Ice	Wand	"A wooden wand painted green and banded with brass.  The wand is capped with a large, flawed emerald.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
944	Fairy Wand of Lashing	Wand	"A wooden wand painted green and banded with brass.  The wand is capped with a large, flawed emerald.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
945	Fairy Wand of Mind	Wand	"A wooden wand painted green and banded with brass.  The wand is capped with a large, flawed emerald.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
946	Fairy Wand of Swarms	Wand	"A wooden wand painted green and banded with brass.  The wand is capped with a large, flawed emerald.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
947	Alacorn Wand of Fireballs	Wand	"Made from the hollowed out horn of a unicorn and capped with a spiked brass ball, wands like these are born of cruelty and evil.  The enchantment it holds is useful;  the only real question is whether you believe your cause justifies the use of an item so wickedly created.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
948	Alacorn Wand of Acid	Wand	"Made from the hollowed out horn of a unicorn and capped with a spiked brass ball, wands like these are born of cruelty and evil.  The enchantment it holds is useful;  the only real question is whether you believe your cause justifies the use of an item so wickedly created.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
949	Alacorn Wand of Lightning	Wand	"Made from the hollowed out horn of a unicorn and capped with a spiked brass ball, wands like these are born of cruelty and evil.  The enchantment it holds is useful;  the only real question is whether you believe your cause justifies the use of an item so wickedly created.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
950	Alacorn Wand of Blades	Wand	"Made from the hollowed out horn of a unicorn and capped with a spiked brass ball, wands like these are born of cruelty and evil.  The enchantment it holds is useful;  the only real question is whether you believe your cause justifies the use of an item so wickedly created.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
951	Alacorn Wand of Charms	Wand	"Made from the hollowed out horn of a unicorn and capped with a spiked brass ball, wands like these are born of cruelty and evil.  The enchantment it holds is useful;  the only real question is whether you believe your cause justifies the use of an item so wickedly created.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
952	Arcane Wand of Blasting	Wand	"A wand of polished ebony capped with the shrunken, bejeweled head of a fallen enemy.  These wands can hold very strong enchantments.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
953	Arcane Wand of the Fist	Wand	"A wand of polished ebony capped with the shrunken, bejeweled head of a fallen enemy.  These wands can hold very strong enchantments.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
954	Arcane Wand of Rocks	Wand	"A wand of polished ebony capped with the shrunken, bejeweled head of a fallen enemy.  These wands can hold very strong enchantments.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
955	Arcane Wand of Paralyzing	Wand	"A wand of polished ebony capped with the shrunken, bejeweled head of a fallen enemy.  These wands can hold very strong enchantments.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
956	Arcane Wand of Clouds	Wand	"A wand of polished ebony capped with the shrunken, bejeweled head of a fallen enemy.  These wands can hold very strong enchantments.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
957	Mystic Wand of Implosion	Wand	"The precious egg of a phoenix was snatched from the fire before it could hatch to make the headstone of this wand.  The rest of the wand is made of steel and plated with gold.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
958	Mystic Wand of Distortion	Wand	"The precious egg of a phoenix was snatched from the fire before it could hatch to make the headstone of this wand.  The rest of the wand is made of steel and plated with gold.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
959	Mystic Wand of Shrapmetal	Wand	"The precious egg of a phoenix was snatched from the fire before it could hatch to make the headstone of this wand.  The rest of the wand is made of steel and plated with gold.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
960	Mystic Wand of Shrinking	Wand	"The precious egg of a phoenix was snatched from the fire before it could hatch to make the headstone of this wand.  The rest of the wand is made of steel and plated with gold.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
961	Mystic Wand of Incineration	Wand	"The precious egg of a phoenix was snatched from the fire before it could hatch to make the headstone of this wand.  The rest of the wand is made of steel and plated with gold.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
962	_item160	_item160	Description here.
963	_item161	_item161	Description here.
964	_item162	_item162	Description here.
965	_item163	_item163	Description here.
966	_item164	_item164	Description here.
967	_item165	_item165	Description here.
968	_item166	_item166	Description here.
969	_item167	_item167	Description here.
970	_item168	_item168	Description here.
971	_item169	_item169	Description here.
972	_item170	_item170	Description here.
973	_item171	_item171	Description here.
974	_item172	_item172	Description here.
975	_item173	_item173	Description here.
976	_item174	_item174	Description here.
977	_item175	_item175	Description here.
978	_item176	_item176	Description here.
979	_item177	_item177	Description here.
980	_item178	_item178	Description here.
981	_item179	_item179	Description here.
982	_item180	_item180	Description here.
983	_item181	_item181	Description here.
984	_item182	_item182	Description here.
985	_item183	_item183	Description here.
986	_item184	_item184	Description here.
987	_item185	_item185	Description here.
988	Blue Quartz	Gemstone	"A gemstone.  It has no magial benefit, so you may as well sell it."
989	Topaz	Gemstone	"A gemstone.  It has no magial benefit, so you may as well sell it."
990	Emerald	Gemstone	"A gemstone.  It has no magial benefit, so you may as well sell it."
991	Sapphire	Gemstone	"A gemstone.  It has no magial benefit, so you may as well sell it."
992	Green Garnet	Gemstone	"A gemstone.  It has no magial benefit, so you may as well sell it."
993	Rose Crystal	Gemstone	"A gemstone.  It has no magial benefit, so you may as well sell it."
994	Diamond	Gemstone	"A gemstone.  It has no magial benefit, so you may as well sell it."
995	Amythest	Gemstone	"A gemstone.  It has no magial benefit, so you may as well sell it."
996	Yellow Topaz	Gemstone	"A gemstone.  It has no magial benefit, so you may as well sell it."
997	Diamond	Gemstone	"A gemstone.  It has no magial benefit, so you may as well sell it."
998	Ruby	Gemstone	"A gemstone.  It has no magial benefit, so you may as well sell it."
999	Gold	gold	A small pile of gold coins.
1000	Gold	gold	A pile of gold coins.
1001	Gold	gold	A large pile of gold coins.
1002	Widowsweep Berries	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Widoweeps berries can be used to make red potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1003	Crushed Rose Petals	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Crushed rose petals can be used to make red potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1004	Vial of Troll Blood	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Vials of troll blood can be used to make red potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1005	Ruby	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Rubies can be used to make red potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1006	Dragon's Eye	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Dragon's eyes can be used to make red potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1007	Phirna Root	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Phirna roots can be used to make blue potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1008	Meteorite Fragment	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Meteorite fragment can be used to make blue potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1009	Harpy Feather	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Harpy feathers can be used to make blue potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1010	Moonstone	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Moonstones can be used to make blue potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1011	Elvish Toadstool	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Elvish toadstools can be used to make blue potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1012	Poppysnaps	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Poppysnaps can be used to make yellow potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1013	Fae Dust	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Fae dust can be used to make yellow potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1014	Sulfur	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Sulfur can be used to make yellow potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1015	Garnet	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Garnets can be used to make yellow potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1016	Vial of Devil Ichor	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Vials of devil ichor can be used to make yellow potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1017	Mushroom	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Mushrooms can be used to make catalysts.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1018	Obsidian	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Obsidian can be used to make catalysts.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1019	Vial of Ooze Endoplasm	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Vials of ooze endoplasm can be used to make catalysts.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1020	Mercury	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Mercury can be used to make catalysts.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1021	Philosopher's Stone	Reagent	"A magical reagent of unusual properties.  Philosopher's stones can be used to make catalysts.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1022	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1023	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1024	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1025	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1026	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1027	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1028	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1029	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1030	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1031	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1032	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1033	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1034	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1035	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1036	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1037	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1038	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1039	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1040	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1041	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1042	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1043	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1044	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1045	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1046	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1047	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1048	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1049	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1050	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1051	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1052	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1053	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1054	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1055	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1056	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1057	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1058	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1059	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1060	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1061	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1062	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1063	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1064	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1065	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1066	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1067	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1068	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1069	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1070	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1071	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1072	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1073	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1074	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1075	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1076	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1077	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1078	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1079	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1080	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1081	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1082	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1083	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1084	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1085	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1086	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1087	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1088	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1089	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1090	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1091	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1092	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1093	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1094	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1095	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1096	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1097	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1098	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1099	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1100	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1101	_potion/reagent	0	Description here.
1102	Torch Light	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1103	Fire Bolt	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1104	Fire Resistance	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1105	Fire Aura	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1106	Haste	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1107	Fireball	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1108	Fire Spike	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1109	Immolation	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1110	Meteor Shower	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1111	Inferno	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1112	Incinerate	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1113	Wizard Eye	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1114	Feather Fall	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1115	Air Resistance	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1116	Sparks	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1117	Jump	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1118	Shield	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1119	Lightning Bolt	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1120	Invisibility	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1121	Implosion	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1122	Fly	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1123	Starburst	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1124	Awaken	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1125	Poison Spray	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1126	Water Resistance	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1127	Ice Bolt	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1128	Water Walk	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1129	Recharge Item	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1130	Acid Burst	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1131	Enchant Item	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1132	Town Portal	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1133	Ice Blast	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1134	Lloyd's Beacon	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1135	Stun	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1136	Slow	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1137	Earth Resistance	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1138	Deadly Swarm	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1139	Stone Skin	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1140	Blades	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1141	Stone to Flesh	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1142	Rock Blast	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1143	Telekinesis	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1144	Death Blossom	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1145	Mass Distortion	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1146	Detect Life	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1147	Bless	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1148	Fate	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1149	Turn Undead	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1150	Remove Curse	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1151	Preservation	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1152	Heroism	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1153	Spirit Lash	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1154	Raise Dead	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1155	Shared Life	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1156	Resurrection	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1157	Remove Fear	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1158	Mind Blast	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1159	Mind Resistance	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1160	Telepathy	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1161	Charm	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1162	Cure Paralysis	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1163	Berserk	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1164	Mass Fear	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1165	Cure Insanity	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1166	Psychic Shock	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1167	Enslave	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1168	Cure Weakness	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1169	Heal	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1170	Body Resistance	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1171	Harm	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1172	Regeneration	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1173	Cure Poison	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1174	Hammerhands	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1175	Cure Disease	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1176	Protection from Magic	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1177	Flying Fist	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1178	Power Cure	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1179	Light Bolt	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1180	Destroy Undead	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1181	Dispel Magic	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1182	Paralyze	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1183	Summon Elemental	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1184	Day of the Gods	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1185	Prismatic Light	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1186	Day of Protection	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1187	Hour of Power	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1188	Sunray	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1189	Divine Intervention	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1190	Reanimate	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1191	Toxic Cloud	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1192	Vampiric Weapon	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1193	Shrinking Ray	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1194	Shrapmetal	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1195	Control Undead	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1196	Pain Reflection	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1197	Dark Grasp	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1198	Dragon Breath	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1199	Armageddon	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1200	Souldrinker	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1201	_scroll/book399	_scroll/book399	Description here.
1202	Torch Light	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1203	Fire Bolt	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1204	Fire Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1205	Fire Aura	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1206	Haste	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1207	Fireball	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1208	Fire Spike	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1209	Immolation	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1210	Meteor Shower	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1211	Inferno	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1212	Incinerate	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to Grandmaster to learn this spell."
1213	Wizard Eye	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1214	Feather Fall	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1215	Air Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1216	Sparks	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1217	Jump	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1218	Shield	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1219	Lightning Bolt	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1220	Invisibility	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1221	Implosion	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1222	Fly	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1223	Starburst	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to Grandmaster to learn this spell."
1224	Awaken	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1225	Poison Spray	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1226	Water Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1227	Ice Bolt	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1228	Water Walk	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1229	Recharge Item	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1230	Acid Burst	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1231	Enchant Item	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1232	Town Portal	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1233	Ice Blast	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1234	Lloyd's Beacon	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to Grandmaster to learn this spell."
1235	Stun	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1236	Slow	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1237	Earth Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1238	Deadly Swarm	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1239	Stone Skin	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1240	Blades	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1241	Stone to Flesh	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1242	Rock Blast	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1243	Telekinesis	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1244	Death Blossom	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1245	Mass Distortion	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to Grandmaster to learn this spell."
1246	Detect Life	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1247	Bless	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1248	Fate	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1249	Turn Undead	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1250	Remove Curse	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1251	Preservation	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1252	Heroism	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1253	Spirit Lash	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1254	Raise Dead	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1255	Shared Life	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1256	Resurrection	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to Grandmaster to learn this spell."
1257	Remove Fear	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1258	Mind Blast	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1259	Mind Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1260	Telepathy	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1261	Charm	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1262	Cure Paralysis	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1263	Berserk	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1264	Mass Fear	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1265	Cure Insanity	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1266	Psychic Shock	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1267	Enslave	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to Grandmaster to learn this spell."
1268	Cure Weakness	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1269	Heal	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1270	Body Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1271	Harm	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1272	Regeneration	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1273	Cure Poison	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1274	Hammerhands	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1275	Cure Disease	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1276	Protection from Magic	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1277	Flying Fist	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1278	Power Cure	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to Grandmaster to learn this spell."
1279	Light Bolt	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
1280	Destroy Undead	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
1281	Dispel Magic	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
1282	Paralyze	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
1283	Summon Elemental	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1284	Day of the Gods	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1285	Prismatic Light	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1286	Day of Protection	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1287	Hour of Power	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1288	Sunray	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1289	Divine Intervention	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to Grandmaster to learn this spell."
1290	Reanimate	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
1291	Toxic Cloud	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
1292	Vampiric Weapon	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
1293	Shrinking Ray	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
1294	Shrapmetal	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1295	Control Undead	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1296	Pain Reflection	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to Expert level to learn this spell."
1297	Dark Grasp	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1298	Dragon Breath	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1299	Armageddon	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to Master level to learn this spell."
1300	Souldrinker	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to Grandmaster to learn this spell."
1301	_scroll/book499	_scroll/book499	Description here.
1302	Puck	Artifact	"(Speed +40, Swift) Ancient and fey, Puck's enchantments cause it to practically fly for enemy's throats.  No one knows when or where Puck was forged, but the Faerie origins are unmistakable."
1303	Iron Feather	Artifact	"(Might +40, 6-15 points of Electrical damage) An impossibly light two-handed sword, the Iron Feather boosts the Might of its owner to make wielding the huge weapon even easier.  The combination almost makes it possible to use the sword in one hand--the huge size of the blade being the only problem.  "
1304	Wallace	Artifact	"(Armsmaster skill +10, Personality +40) Wallace has somehow found its way into the hands of rebels and rabble rousers for centuries.  The weapon magnifies both the ability and the confidence of its wielder, frequently leading its owners to take risks they might otherwise have avoided.  Though none of its owner's ambitions have been fulfilled, no one has ever declined to carry Wallace once they have heard its siren song."
1305	Corsair	Artifact	"(Stealing skill +5, Disarm skill +5, Luck +40) Corsair is one of the finest weapons ever turned out by the Regnan armories.  Ever true to their nature, Regna's smiths fashioned a weapon that would aid their imperial ""tax collection"" efforts on the high seas and coastal towns.  To this date, Regna has not forged a weapon that didn't advance their selfish goals at the expense of others."
1306	Governor's Armor	Artifact	"(Half damage from missile attacks, +10 to all statistics) Owned by Colonial Governor Padish at the Time of the Silence, this fantastic armor has resurfaced in many of the great treasure hoardes throughout history.  Like most creations turned out by the Heavenly Forge, it is nearly indestructible, and its like can no longer be made by any forge in the land."
1307	Yoruba	Artifact	"(Immunity to disease, insanity, paralysis, poison, sleep, and stone conditions, Endurance +25) Named after its owner and creator, Yoruba is an extremely tough, magic resistant suit of plate mail.  Because of the armor's prohibitive expense, it was built in piecemeal fashion--and it shows.  Different pieces are made of different materials, with the most expensive ones in the breastplate.  There are two puncture holes in the breastplate that the original owner never repaired, possibly for sentimental reasons."
1308	Splitter	Artifact	"(Explosive impact, Fire Resistance +50) Though powerful, Splitter is never wielded by a single owner for long.  The blade gives off great blasts of fire when struck, and the magical protection against fire the weapon offers isn't enough to completely shield a user from the blast."
1309	Ghoulsbane	Artifact	"(Undead slaying, Immunity to paralysis, 3-18 fire damage) Ghoulsbane was commissioned by the Church of the Sun more than 150 years ago as part of their effort to destroy the ever growing population of undead created by the Church of the Moon.  Though powerful, it is only one weapon, and the undead are legion.  The Church of the Sun fell in 1083 A.S."
1310	Gibbet	Artifact	"(Undead slaying, Dragon slaying, Demon slaying) A humorless weapon, to say the least, Gibbet was forged by Mekorig the Blind to help end the Age of Monsters, and promote the Age of Man.  A noble idea, but one that hasn't worked out very well.  Gibbet often goes missing for years, only to be rediscovered in some dragon's hoard by ambitious adventurers.  The power of the weapon often inspires such adventurers to move the weapon to another dragon hoard, where it once again goes missing for years."
1311	Charele	Artifact	"Built at the behest of Hareck I during the formation of the Regnan ""Empire"", Charele was named after his wife, Queen Charele.  It was left in Regna's only Erathian outpost during the chaos following Hareck's poisoning death in 590 A.S."
1312	Ullyses	Artifact	"(Accuracy +50, 9-12 water damage) The Archer's dream.  Ullyses requires no arrows, firing bolts of ice formed when the string is drawn back.  Its origins are unknown, but the style suggests Elvish make."
1313	Hands of the Master	Artifact	"(Unarmed skill +10, Dodging skill +10) The Hands of the Master are meant for Monks, but a few Thieves have put them to use with excellent results.  Most of the owners have gone on to fame and fortune, but the last one obviously didn't do so well."
1314	Seven League Boots	Artifact	"(Speed +40, of Water Magic) So named for their boost to their wearer's reflexes and pace, the Boots true function is to ease the use of Water Magic in order to speed travel.  Anyone using the boots is destined for greatness, but not necessarily honor.  Much mischief can be attributed to previous owners of these boots."
1315	Ruler's Ring	Artifact	"(Of Mind Magic, of Dark Magic) The Ruler's Ring was made in 744 A.S. by Joshua Stom, chief alchemist for the Warlocks of Nighon.  Although not an inheritly evil artifact, the ring was created to control and conquer, nothing more."
1316	Mash	Relic	"(Might +150, Intellect -40, Personality -40, Speed -40) It is said that Mash was the answer to the First Ogre's prayer to the Gods for a weapon that would make it stronger than anything else.  Annoyed, the Gods cursed the First Ogre with Mash, and all Ogres have since borne the mark of that act--strong, but slow, dull, and stupid.  In any event, Mash is yours now."
1317	Ethric's Staff	Relic	"(Of Dark Magic, Meditation skill +15, Decrease Hit Points over time, Evil) Much more a tool than a weapon, Ethric's Staff was fashioned by the world's first lich--Ethric the Mad.  The staff magnifies Dark magic, drawing from the life force of its user.  Since Ethric's life force was magically sustained, this wasn't a problem for him.  Mortals, however, will slowly feel their life force drain away while they hold the staff."
1318	Hareck's Leather	Relic	"(Stealing skill +5, Disarm skill +5, Water Walking, Luck +50, All Resistances -10)This leather armor was specially built by the Regnan armory for Hareck the First, Lord of Regna, and Emperor of the Endless Ocean.  The armor did everything a glorified pirate like Hareck could hope for, except protect him from poison.  The mighty first Emperor of Regna died just after dinner while wearing the armor, poisoned by his wife's hand. "
1319	Old Nick	Relic	"(Disarm Skill +5, 8 points of Poison damage, Elf Slaying, Evil) Secretly passed from one Assassin to another for centuries, Old Nick happily vanished from history's sight during the Battle for Morning--a joint Human-Elvish attack on the Assassin's guild nearly 200 years ago.  It is said that Old Nick has killed more people than the Plague.  Now that you've found this evil weapon, you're going to throw it down a well...aren't you?"
1320	Amuck	Relic	"(Might +100, Endurance +100, Armor Class -15) The original name of Amuck has been lost in time, but the blade retains a magically keen edge and all of its original power.  Fantastic strength and vitality are conferred upon the owner at the expense of a proper sense of fear.  Wielders of Amuck don't much bother dodging blows in battle."
1321	Glory Shield	Relic	"(Of Spirit Magic, Shield skill +5, Body Resistance -10, Mind Resistance -10) One of five such shields known to exist, the Glory Shield was built during the Time of Wonders.  It was especially tuned to promote Spirit magic, but that same attunement leaves the wielder somewhat open to Mind and Body based attacks."
1322	Kelebrim	Relic	"(Immunity to stone condition, Half damage from missile attacks, Endurance +50, Earth Resistance -30) One of the first shields to issue from the Kelebrim Foundry, this one bears the simple stamp ""Kelebrim"" on the inside under the hand strap.  It has very powerful enchantments meant to protect from Medusa gazes, but like many grand enchantments, it comes with a flaw.  Kelebrim weakens it's owners resistance to Earth magic."
1323	Taledon's Helm	Relic	"(Of Light Magic, Personality +15, Might +15, Luck -40, Good)Owned by Taledon, Divine High Priest and High Holy Conduit of the Church of the Sun from 870 A.S., this powerful helm probably contributed to his untimely death in 881.  It is said that an object may take so much enchantment--try to put too much in, and something negative squeezes out.  In this case, the negative made the wearer profoundly unlucky.  Taledon, arguably the most powerful figure of his time, veteran diplomat, soldier, and priest, was crushed beneath the wheels of a runaway peasant's wagon while crossing the street in Steadwick."
1324	Scholar's Cap	Relic	"(Learning skill +15, Endurance -50) The Scholar's Cap vastly improves the ability of the mind to absorb and retain experiences.  The effect is so intense that wearers frequently forget to care for their bodies while swimming in the sea of their thoughts.  "
1325	Phynaxian Crown	Relic	"(Of Fire Magic, Water Resistance +50, Personality +30, Armor Class -20) This is the lost (WAS the lost) crown of the short lived Empire of Phynax.  When worn, the crown's jewels smolder with   barely restrained Fire magic, and cast reddish light upon the face of the wearer.  The crown amplifies any skill in Fire magic the wearer may have, and fiercely resists water based attacks."
1326	Titan's Belt	Relic	"(Might +75, Speed -40) Like so many similar items, the Titan's Belt increases the might of its wearer at the expense of speed.  The only difference with this relic is the magnitude of the trade off."
1327	Twilight	Relic	"(Speed +50, Luck +50, All resistances -15, Evil) The sinister Twilight Cloak has been used by spies and assassins for centuries.  The nature of the enchantment is so beneficial to those professions that the loss of magical resistance is easily overlooked."
1328	Ania Selving	Relic	"(Accuracy +150, Bow skill +5, Armor Class -25) Master smith Ivan Selving named this crossbow after his only daughter Ania, calling it his second best creation ever.  Archers using this crossbow rarely miss their targets, but their concentration and slow, careful movements make them easy targets in turn."
1329	Justice	Relic	"(Undead slaying, of Mind magic, of Body magic, -40 Speed, Good) Forged in the halcyon days at the beginning of the Church of the Sun, Justice is a powerful weapon for Good.  At the cost of a speed, Justice is one of the mightiest relics a Paladin or Cleric can wield for the Path of Light."
1330	Mekorig's Hammer	Relic	"(Of Spirit magic, Might +75, Air Resistance -50) This is the very hammer the great Mekorig the Blind used to turn out so much of the world's finest enchanted equipment during his many years as Master of the Mekorig Foundry.  The hammer's connection to the elements leaves the wielder vulnerable to elemental magic, but it is a small price to pay for the enhanced Self ability and Might the hammer provides."
1331	Hermes' Sandals	Sandals	"(+100 Speed, +50 Accuracy, +50 Air Resistance, Regenerate HP, Regenerate SP, Feather Falling) Rumored to be the footwear of a god, the winged sandals confer enormous power on the wearer."
1332	Cloak of the Sheep	Cloak	"(Immunity to disease, insanity, paralysis, poison, sleep, and stone conditions, Intellect -20, Personality -20) The cloak worn by the High Priest of Baa, though useful it seems to sap the will of the wearer slowly away."
1333	Elfbane	Two-Handed Sword	"(Of Shielding, Elf Slayer, Goblin) This sword was created by the goblins for their Chief at the time, Grogar.  Unfortunately, the goblins lost the war and Elfbane was lost for quite some time.  Enchanted to both slay elves, and protect its wielder from arrows, Elfbane truly lives up to its name.  A curious side effect of the enchantment renders the weapon unusable by all but a goblin."
1334	Mind's Eye	Helm	"(+15 Intellect, +15 Personality, Regenerate SP, Human) Mind's Eye was created by Mekorig for the Great Druid, Larette Weisman.  While enhancing both intellect and personality, Mind's Eye regenerates the wearer's mana and also provides head protection.  Unfortunately, Mind's Eye will only fit on the head of a human."
1335	Elven Chainmail	Chain Mail	"(of Recovery, +15 Speed, +15 Accuracy, Elven) Elven chainmail was more common before the wars against the humans and the goblins.  Centuries of combat combined with the degradation of armorsmithing skills have reduced the number of sets of Elven Chainmail to almost none.  The effect of using lighter materials and custom designing the armor to only fit elves grants the wearer more freedom of movement, allowing faster, more accurate attacks."
1336	Forge Gauntlets	Gauntlets	"(+30 Fire Resistance, +15 Might, +15 Endurance, Dwarven) Forge Gauntlets were created by Mekorig for his assistants to aid them in helping him.  Extending the already amazing dwarven might and endurance, the gauntlets also grant exceptional resistance to fire-- necessary in a forge as hot as Mekorig's."
1337	Hero's Belt	Belt	"(+5 Armsmaster skill, +15 Might, Regenerate HP, Male) Designed for Saint Perci, this belt confers martial prowess, exceptional strength, and regeneration.  Saint Perci used the belt quite extensively, but even with its help he wasn't able to stave off death at the hands of the Wromthrax the dragon."
1338	Lady's Escort	Ring	"(Water walking, Feather falling, of Protection, Female) A magical 'escort' designed by the mage Terrax for one of his female friends who had to travel quite far to reach him.  The ring protects the wearer from elements, falling, and drowning.  Unfortunately, she traveled to Erathia and the ring disappeared soon after."
1339	Clanker's Amulet	Amulet	"A mighty tool for alchemists, this amulet was the secret to Clanker's success.  "
1340	Lieutenant's Cutlass	Cutlass	"A fine steel weapon, this cutlass is sharpened and ready for action."
1341	Medusa's Mirror	Amulet	The user of this mirror is completely immune to stoning effects.  Would have been nice to have this earlier.  
1342	Lady Carmine's Dagger	Dagger	Nicks and scratches on this nasty blade show that it has seen plenty of action.  
1343	Villain's Blade	Sword	"William Setag would frequently slay prisoners with this blade to heal his own minor cuts and bruises.  The weapon is cold to the touch, and tingles in your hand."
1344	The Perfect Bow	Bow	"Quest Item:  Although of high quality, this bow doesn't seem to perform nearly as well as it should.  The string is too hard to pull back, it doesn't remain steady enough while aiming, and it seems a little off-balance."
1345	The Perfect Bow	Bow	"This bow seems to know its wielder's strength and adjusts itself accordingly.  You never have to struggle to pull the string back, and it's always easy to hold your shot until you're ready to fire.  Dozens of small advantages like this in the design of the bow make for the finest weapon of its type you have ever seen."
1346	Shadow's Mask	Helm	"A mask designed to hide the identity of the wearer, it has also been magically enhanced to offer good protection and to aid thiefly pursuits."
1347	Ghost Ring	Ring	An odd ring that feels strangely warm to the touch.  It enhances the wearers connection to the spirit.
1348	Faerie Ring	Ring	A rare and very powerful ring made by Faeries.  Few mortals ever see such as this!
1349	Sun Cloak	Cloak	This cloak signifies the highest rank attainable by a Priest of the Sun.  No more than nine of these cloaks were ever made--one for each member of the High Council of the Sun.
1350	Moon Cloak	Cloak	This cloak signifies the highest rank attainable by a Priest of the Moon.  No more than nine of these cloaks were ever made--one for each member of the High Council of the Moon.
1351	Zokarr's Axe	Two-Handed Axe	The family heirloom of the Zokarr monarchs.  This weapon grants the wielder a greater affinity with earth magic.
1352	Vampire's Cape	Cloak	"Small wonder such a cloak as this would be found on a vampire.  The cloak prevents sunlight from reaching the body, but is unable to protect the face."
1353	Minotaur's Axe	Axe	"A fine trophy!  The axe is made for a Minotaur and is very heavy, but the magical strength it imparts makes it easy to use for anyone."
1354	Grognard's Cutlass	Cutlass	"A finely crafted and specially enchanted goblin weapon.  Though originally crafted to slay elves, this weapon does a perfectly good job on members of the other races."
1355	_artifact553	_artifact553	Description here.
1356	_artifact554	_artifact554	Description here.
1357	_artifact555	_artifact555	Description here.
1358	_artifact556	_artifact556	Description here.
1359	_artifact557	_artifact557	Description here.
1360	_artifact558	_artifact558	Description here.
1361	_artifact559	_artifact559	Description here.
1362	_artifact560	_artifact560	Description here.
1363	_artifact561	_artifact561	Description here.
1364	_artifact562	_artifact562	Description here.
1365	_artifact563	_artifact563	Description here.
1366	_artifact564	_artifact564	Description here.
1367	_artifact565	_artifact565	Description here.
1368	_artifact566	_artifact566	Description here.
1369	_artifact567	_artifact567	Description here.
1370	_artifact568	_artifact568	Description here.
1371	_artifact569	_artifact569	Description here.
1372	The DeathBlade	Two-Handed Sword	For testing remove before final release.
1373	_artifact571	_artifact571	Description here.
1374	_artifact572	_artifact572	Description here.
1375	_artifact573	_artifact573	Description here.
1376	_artifact574	_artifact574	Description here.
1377	_artifact575	_artifact575	Description here.
1378	_artifact576	_artifact576	Description here.
1379	_artifact577	_artifact577	Description here.
1380	_artifact578	_artifact578	Description here.
1381	_artifact579	_artifact579	Description here.
1382	_artifact580	_artifact580	Description here.
1383	_artifact581	_artifact581	Description here.
1384	_artifact582	_artifact582	Description here.
1385	_artifact583	_artifact583	Description here.
1386	_artifact584	_artifact584	Description here.
1387	_artifact585	_artifact585	Description here.
1388	_artifact586	_artifact586	Description here.
1389	_artifact587	_artifact587	Description here.
1390	_artifact588	_artifact588	Description here.
1391	_artifact589	_artifact589	Description here.
1392	_artifact590	_artifact590	Description here.
1393	_artifact591	_artifact591	Description here.
1394	_artifact592	_artifact592	Description here.
1395	_artifact593	_artifact593	Description here.
1396	_artifact594	_artifact594	Description here.
1397	_artifact595	_artifact595	Description here.
1398	_artifact596	_artifact596	Description here.
1399	_artifact597	_artifact597	Description here.
1400	_artifact598	_artifact598	Description here.
1401	_artifact599	_artifact599	Description here.
1402	Heart of the Wood	Gem	Quest Item:  A jewel like none you have ever seen.
1403	Lich Jar	Jar	Quest Item:  A jar holding your physical and spiritual essence.  Don't lose the jar.
1404	Case of Soul Jars	Case of Jars	Quest Item:  A rosewood case lovingly crafted to contain a set of Lich Jars.  This case appears to be full.
1405	Parson's Quill	Quill	Quest Item:  King Parson's hand employed this quill to sign the treaty ending the first Timber War.
1406	Wetsuit	Strange Suit	"Quest Item:  This environmental suit handles not only respiration, but protection from the extreme pressure of deep sea diving.  It does not look like any other items may be worn while wearing the suit.  You must remove ALL equipment to wear the suit."
1407	Oscillation Overthruster	Ancient Part	Quest Item:  This device has no visible symbols or parts.  Why it is so valuable is beyond your comprehension.
1408	Signet Ring	Ring	Quest Item:  A highly stylized 'D' and 'P' intertwined by a snake with a crown above its head are engraved into the face of this ring.  This must certainly be Davrick's.
1409	Letter from Johann Kerrid to the Faerie King	Letter	"Quest Item:  A letter from Johann Kerrid to the Faerie King.  Opening a sealed letter is in the poorest of taste, and would be frowned upon by both parties."
1410	Sealed Letter 2	Letter	A sealed letter.
1411	Sealed Letter 3	Letter	A sealed letter.
1412	Sealed Letter 4	Letter	A sealed letter.
1413	Sealed Letter 5	Letter	A sealed letter.
1414	Sealed Letter 6	Letter	A sealed letter.
1415	Sealed Letter 7	Letter	A sealed letter.
1416	Letter from Norbert Thrush to Lord Markham	Letter	"Quest Item:  A letter from Norbert Thrush to Lord Markham.  Opening a sealed letter is in the poorest of taste, and would be frowned upon by both parties."
1417	Lich Jar	Jar	Quest Item:  Empty Jar
1418	Genie Lamp	Lamp	"The genies captured in these lamps will usually reward those who set them free, though sometimes they take cruel delight in punishing the first living beings they encounter.  To use the genie lamp, pick the lamp up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1419	Knight Statuette	Statuette	Quest Item:  A small statuette of a knightly figure.  The statuette seems to radiate a faint magic.
1420	Eagle Statuette	Statuette	Quest Item:  A small statuette of a proud eagle.  The statuette seems to radiate a faint magic.
1421	Angel Statuette	Statuette	Quest Item:  A small statuette of an angel.  The statuette seems to radiate a faint magic.
1422	Big Tapestry	Tapestry	"A large tapestry, suitable for hanging in castles."
1423	Angel Statue Painting	Painting	Quest Item:  A painting of the angel fountain in the courtyard of Castle Ironfist.
1424	Archibald Ironfist Painting	Painting	Quest Item:  A painting of Archibald Ironfist just prior to his War of Succession in Enroth.
1425	Roland Ironfist Painting	Painting	Quest Item:  A painting of Roland Ironfist just prior to the War of Succession in Enroth.
1426	Vase	Vase	"Quest Item:  This small, porcelain vase has been etched with the inscription, ""To Lord Markham, for a great job in the war, Queen Catherine."""
1427	Flower (Rose)	Flower	"A red, red, rose."
1428	Zokarr IV's Skull	Skull	"Quest Item:  The skull of the old Dwarf King, Zokarr IV.  It doesn't look particularly impressive."
1429	Thigh Bone	Bone	A human(?) thigh bone.
1430	Haldar's Remains	Jar	Quest Item:  This strangely shaped jar resists all attempts to open or break.  Haldar apparently doesn't like to be disturbed. 
1431	Elixir	Bottle	Quest Item:  A glowing elixir of obviously magical properties.
1432	Red Apple	Apple	"Apples like these are produced by trees saturated by magic-- usually in the elven lands of Avlee and the Tularean Forest, though not restricted to these areas.  To use the apple, pick the apple up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1433	Wealthy Hat	Hat	"Quest Item: This hat appears to belong to a more affluent member of society, the feather is genuine and the construction is solid.  Unfortunately, it doesn't seem to fit."
1434	Lute	Instrument	Quest Item: This lute has been masterfully crafted and lovingly maintained.  This instrument clearly belongs to a Bard.
1435	Faerie Pipes	Instrument	"Quest Item:  Though finely crafted and deceptively simple-looking, these Pipes are quite difficult to play; they seem to have a mind of their own."
1436	Gryphonheart's Trumpet	Instrument	"Quest Item:  An artifact from a previous Elf/Human dispute, lost by Terrance Gryphonheart in a daring night-time raid by Elvish forces.  Rumor has it that no army that has fought on the side of this trumpet's music has ever been defeated.  Even if the rumor is false, it will certainly boost morale on either side."
1437	Seashell	Seashell	Quest Item: Seashells this large are only found on the beaches of Emerald Island.  One of these might make a nice souvenir of your time here.
1438	Floor Tile (w/ moon insignia)	Tile	Quest Item: This tile was apparently part of the library in a Temple of the Moon.
1439	Winged Sandals	Sandals	"(+100 Speed, +50 Accuracy, +50 Air Resistance, Regenerate SP and HP over time, and Feather Falling) Rumored to be the footwear of a god, the winged sandals confer enormous power on the wearer."
1440	Season's Stole	Scarf	"Quest Item: The Seasons' Stole is worn by priests during seasonal festivities.  Though it doesn't have any direct power, most commonfolk believe it grants luck in the planting or harvest."
1441	Golem chest	Golem part	Quest Item:  The broad torso of a mighty golem.  It appears to require a bit of assembly before being fully functional.
1442	Abbey Normal Golem Head	Golem part	Quest Item:  The dented head of a mighty golem.  It looks a littlestrange.  It appears to require a bit of assembly before being fully functional.
1443	Golem head	Golem part	Quest Item:  The proud head of a mighty golem.  It appears to require a bit of assembly before being fully functional.
1444	Golem left leg	Golem part	Quest Item:  The massive left leg of a mighty golem.  It appears to require a bit of assembly before being fully functional.
1445	Golem right leg	Golem part	Quest Item:  The massive right leg of a mighty golem.  It appears to require a bit of assembly before being fully functional.
1446	Golem right arm	Golem part	Quest Item:  The powerful right arm of a mighty golem.  It appears to require a bit of assembly before being fully functional.
1447	Golem left arm	Golem part	Quest Item:  The powerful left arm of a mighty golem.  It appears to require a bit of assembly before being fully functional.
1448	Horseshoe	Horseshoe	"This flawless horseshoe is made of silver.  To use, pick the horseshoe up and right-click over a character's portrait."
1449	Dragon Egg	Egg	"Quest Item:  Rough, leathery, and strangely warm, this egg appears nearly ready to hatch."
1450	Lantern of Light	Lantern	"Quest Item:  This lantern shines with a faint, holy light, though no flame appears to be lit inside."
1451	Worn Belt	Belt	"Quest Item:  This belt is worn to the point where it should only last about an hour.  Hopefully, that will be long enough."
1452	Temple in a Bottle	Bottle	"A strangely shaped small building finely crafted inside a glass bottle.  Something about the bottle beckons you inside.  To use, pick the bottle up and click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1453	Arcomage Deck	Deck	Quest Item: A deck of fancifully drawn cards used for a popular card game.
1454	West Pillar Key	Key	A small key.
1455	Central Pillar Key	Key	A small key.
1456	East Pillar Key	Key	A small key.
1457	Barrow Key	Key	A small key.
1458	Barrow Key	Key	A small key.
1459	Barrow Key	Key	A small key.
1460	Contestant's Shield	Contestant's Shield	Quest Item:  Blood stains the back side of this battered shield.  The owner must certainly have been killed while using it.
1461	William's Tower Key	Key	A small key.
1462	Catherine's Key	Key	A small key.
1463	Colony Zod Key	Key	A small key.
1464	Faerie Key	Key	A small key.
1465	Sewer Key	Key	Been looking for this?  No wonder it wasn't in the sewers it was hiding out in Erathia the whole time.
1466	Newname Key	Key	A small key.
1467	Newname Key	Key	A small key.
1468	Newname Key	Map	A small key.
1469	Newname Key	Map	A small key.
1470	Newname Key	Map	A small key.
1471	Newname Key	Map	A small key.
1472	Newname Key	Map	A small key.
1473	Snergle's Axe	Axe	"Quest Item:  The finest Dwarven axe ever created in Enroth, Snergle's name is traced in flowing dwarven runes across the blade."
1474	Lord Kilburn's Shield	Large Shield	Quest Item:  This battered shield still bears Kilburn's name etched near the bottom.
1475	Lich Jar Placeholder	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1476	Elixir Placeholder	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1477	Control Cube	Cube	Quest Item:  A small black cube of an unidentifiable metal.
1478	Altar Piece	Altar Piece	Quest Item:  A strange object made of an unfamiliar purplish metal.  It appears to only half complete.
1479	Altar Piece	Altar Piece	Quest Item:  A strange object made of an unfamiliar purplish metal.  It appears to only half complete.
1480	Final Part Placeholder	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1481	Level Design Placeholder	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1482	Artifact Placeholder (Elf vs. Human)	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1483	Riverstride Plans Placeholder	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1484	False Plans Placeholder	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1485	Map to Evenmorn Island	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1486	Neutral Bow Placeholder	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1487	Elf/Human Artifact Placeholder	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1488	Iron-laced ore	Lump of Ore	"A small chunk of iron-laced ore.  In the hands of a skilled craftsman, this could make a weapon, an amulet, a ring, armor, or almost any other useful item."
1489	Siertal-laced ore	Lump of Ore	"A small chunk of siertal-laced ore.  Stronger and lighter than steel, in the hands of a skilled craftsman siertal could make an exceptional weapon, an amulet, a ring, armor, or almost any other useful item."
1490	Phylt-laced ore	Lump of Ore	"A small chunk of phylt-laced ore.  Phylt is often used in steel alloys to increase the durability and enchantability of steel.  In the hands of a skilled craftsman phylt could make a weapon, an amulet, a ring, armor, or almost any other useful item."
1491	Kergar-laced ore	Lump of Ore	"A small chunk of kergar-laced ore.  Kergar shares many properties of steel, but is much easier to enchant.  In the hands of a skilled craftsman kergar could easily make a magical weapon, an amulet, a ring, armor, or almost any other item."
1492	Erudine-laced ore	Lump of Ore	"A small chunk of erudine-laced ore.  A rare magical ore found in few regions of Erathia, in the hands of a skilled craftsman erudine could make a powerful weapon, an amulet, a ring, armor, or almost any other item."
1493	Stalt-laced ore	Lump of Ore	"A small chunk of stalt-laced ore.  Easy to enchant and as hard as obsidian, in the hands of a skilled craftsman stalt could make an incredibly powerful weapon, an amulet, a ring, armor, or almost any other item."
1494	Crate of Arrowheads	Crate	A crate of goods.
1495	Crate of Griffin Feathers	Crate	A crate of goods.
1496	Crate of Tularean Wood	Crate	A crate of goods.
1497	Crate of Sand	Crate	A crate of goods.
1498	Crate of Glass Bottles	Crate	A crate of goods.
1499	Crate of Enrothian Wine	Crate	A crate of goods.
1500	Orders from Snergle	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1501	Name of Message	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1502	Message from Erathia	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1503	Cipher	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1504	Scroll of Waves	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1505	Basic Cryptography	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1506	Message from Mr. Stantley	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1507	Riverstride Plans	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1508	False Riverstride Plans	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1509	Fragment of Soldier's Diary	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1510	Letter from Mr. Stantley	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1511	Torn Page	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1512	Remains of a Journal	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1513	Journal Excerpt	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1514	Letter from Archibald	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1515	Letter from Malwick	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1516	Letter from Gavin Magnus	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1517	Journal Fragment	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1518	Letter to Hairbaugh	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1519	Letter from Mr. Stantley	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1520	"Journal Entry, 23rd April"	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1521	"Journal Entry, 30th June"	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1522	Excerpt from a Diary	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1523	Letter	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1524	"Journal Entry, 11th December"	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1525	Orders from Steadwick	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1526	"Journal Entry, 2nd January"	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1527	"Journal Entry, 19th September"	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1528	Journal Entry	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1529	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1530	Bill of Sale	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1531	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1532	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1533	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1534	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1535	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1536	Letter from Xenofex	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1537	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1538	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1539	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1540	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1541	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1542	Rejuvenation Recipe	Rejuvenation Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1543	Pure Might Recipe	Pure Might Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1544	Pure Accuracy Recipe	Pure Accuracy Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1545	Pure Personality Recipe	Pure Personality Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1546	Pure Endurance Recipe	Pure Endurance Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1547	Pure Intellect Recipe	Pure Intellect Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1548	Pure Speed Recipe	Pure Speed Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1549	Pure Luck Recipe	Pure Luck Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1550	Slaying Potion Recipe	Slaying Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1551	Stone To Flesh Recipe	Stone To Flesh Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1552	Might Boost Recipe	Might Boost Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1553	Intellect Boost Recipe	Intellect Boost Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1554	Personality Boost Recipe	Personality Boost Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1555	Endurance Boost Recipe	Endurance Boost Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1556	Speed Boost Recipe	Speed Boost Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1557	Accuracy Boost Recipe	Accuracy Boost Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1558	Flaming Potion Recipe	Flaming Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1559	Freezing Potion Recipe	Freezing Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1560	Noxious Potion Recipe	Noxious Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1561	Shocking Potion Recipe	Shocking Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1562	Swift Potion Recipe	Swift Potion Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1563	Cure Paralysis Recipe	Cure Paralysis Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1564	Divine Restoration Recipe	Divine Restoration Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1565	Divine Cure Recipe	Divine Cure Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1566	Divine Power Recipe	Divine Power Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1567	Luck Boost Recipe	Luck Boost Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1568	Fire Resistance Recipe	Fire Resistance Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1569	Air Resistance Recipe	Air Resistance Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1570	Water Resistance Recipe	Water Resistance Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1571	Earth Resistance Recipe	Earth Resistance Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1572	Mind Resistance Recipe	Mind Resistance Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1573	Body Resistance Recipe	Body Resistance Recipe	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1574	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1575	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1576	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
1577	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	Description here.
1578	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	Description here.
1579	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	Description here.
1580	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	Description here.
1581	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	Description here.
1582	Empty Message Scroll	Message Scroll	Description here.
1583	_quest/misc781	_quest/misc781	Description here.
1584	_quest/misc782	_quest/misc782	Description here.
1585	_quest/misc783	_quest/misc783	Description here.
1586	_quest/misc784	_quest/misc784	Description here.
1587	_quest/misc785	_quest/misc785	Description here.
1588	_quest/misc786	_quest/misc786	Description here.
1589	_quest/misc787	_quest/misc787	Description here.
1590	_quest/misc788	_quest/misc788	Description here.
1591	_quest/misc789	_quest/misc789	Description here.
1592	_quest/misc790	_quest/misc790	Description here.
1593	_quest/misc791	_quest/misc791	Description here.
1594	_quest/misc792	_quest/misc792	Description here.
1595	_quest/misc793	_quest/misc793	Description here.
1596	_quest/misc794	_quest/misc794	Description here.
1597	_quest/misc795	_quest/misc795	Description here.
1598	_quest/misc796	_quest/misc796	Description here.
1599	_quest/misc797	_quest/misc797	Description here.
1600	_quest/misc798	_quest/misc798	Description here.
1601	_quest/misc799	_quest/misc799	Description here.
1602			
1603	Longsword	Longsword	"Of simple make and design, this longsword is deadly nonetheless."
1604	Warrior Sword	Longsword	A longsword of superior strength and edge.
1605	Crusader Sword	Longsword	Hammered metal patterns on the blade of this longsword suggest high quality Dwarven manufacture.
1606	Champion Sword	Longsword	"An extremely high quality longsword, this weapon is one of no more than one thousand of its kind forged by master weaponsmith Mekorig the Blind circa 780-800."
1607	Lionheart Sword	Longsword	"A weapon as rare as it is ancient, this longsword was forged during the Time of Wonders.  The process used to forge steel of this quality was lost sometime just after the Silence."
1608	Two-Handed Sword	Two-Handed Sword	A basic two-handed sword.  Thousands of these low quality weapons can be found throughout Enroth.
1609	Great Sword	Two-Handed Sword	"Yet another simple two-handed sword, this barbarian's weapon sports a wavy blade and an extra cross piece.  Its construction is sturdy and the blade is sharp."
1610	Heroic Sword	Two-Handed Sword	"An unusually high quality two-handed sword, this blade is both strong and reliable."
1611	Broadsword	Broadsword	A common broadsword.  These blades can be found throughout the land in the hands of both heroes and villains.
1612	Steel Broadsword	Broadsword	A fine Erathian steel broadsword of excellent quality and edge.
1613	Mighty Broadsword	Broadsword	This broadsword's edge and beauty are enchanted and untouched by time.  The blade looks as though it was forged yesterday.
1614	Cutlass	Cutlass	"A cutlass of Goblin manufacture, this blade is as deadly as it is ugly."
1615	Pirate Cutlass	Cutlass	The traditional back-up weapon of the Regnan pirates living on the countless islands east of the island of Mist.  These cutlasses were forged by one of a long line of smiths native to those islands.
1616	Master Cutlass	Cutlass	"Cleverly concealed initials near the pommel of this cutlass prove this beautiful weapon to be the work of Alec Teling, master smith to Hareck IX, Lord of Regna, and emperor of the Endless Ocean."
1617	Dagger	Dagger	"A common dagger, favorite of thieves and assassins the world over."
1618	Blood Dagger	Dagger	"Blood Daggers are ceremonial weapons worn by the nobility of Regna.  Their popularity has spread in recent years to the nobility of Enroth, and now they can be found throughout the land.  Though ceremonial, they are sharp and reliable blades."
1619	Shadow Dagger	Dagger	"Commissioned by Ethric the Mad while still a human, it is said these daggers have a link to the Land of the Dead.  They are used in certain magical rituals designed to extend life to unnatural lengths."
1620	Mage Dagger	Dagger	"One of less than a hundred such blades, Mage daggers were carried and forged by members of the Alchemical Alliance roughly 300 years ago in the fires beneath Castle Alamos.  It is no longer possible to make a finer blade than a Mage dagger."
1621	Jeweled Dagger	Dagger	"A weapon from the Time of Wonders, this blade is of both extreme age and quality."
1622	Long Dagger	Long Dagger	"The common long dagger.  Bordering on swords, these long daggers are favored by assassins who want a weapon that is both concealable yet has a longer reach than the traditional dagger."
1623	Piercing Dagger	Long Dagger	"Really more of a short sword than a dagger, the narrow blade belies an unusual strength and a possibly enchanted edge."
1624	Divine Dagger	Long Dagger	"A 'Weapon of the Gods', this weapon was one of the last created before the great forges fell to the Silence in the year 113 A.S (After the Silence)."
1625	Hand Axe	Axe	"More of a tool than a weapon, this simple axe will work in a pinch.  But don't expect much."
1626	Battle Axe	Axe	"Made as a weapon of war instead of a tool, the battle axe is usually employed by barbarians and undisciplined armies."
1627	War Axe	Axe	This War Axe appears to be one of a large shipment of such axes seized by Roland during the Succession War.  It was manufactured in Karigor by order of Archibald Ironfist to be used against his brother in their struggle for the throne of Enroth.
1628	Dwarven Axe	Axe	"An example of the high quality work done by the dwarves of the Red Mountains, the blade is sharp and the balance perfect."
1629	Supreme Axe	Axe	"This weapon surely has a dark history.  An axe of this quality is only forged as the personal weapon of a noble Dwarf, and it is never sold or traded away"
1630	Light Poleaxe	Two-Handed Axe	This style of long hafted axe is typically used to deadly effect by Eastern tribes and the elite guard of some members of the nobility.
1631	Heavy Poleaxe	Two-Handed Axe	"A stronger version of the basic Poleax, this weapon is frequently used by city guards and other fighters who don't expect to do battle in large, coordinated groups (like armies)."
1632	Grand Poleaxe	Two-Handed Axe	The blade head of this weapon was obviously created with the aid of magic.  It is both unusually sharp and light at the same time.
1633	Spear	Spear	"Barely more than a sharpened stick, this spear is still quite deadly.  Like all spears, it can be used in one or both hands (+1D9 if used two-handed)."
1634	Stout Spear	Spear	"This spear has a reinforced steel tip to help it penetrate tough armor and hides.  Like all spears, it can be used in one or both hands (+1D9 if used two-handed)."
1635	Serpent Spear	Spear	"Decorated with carved serpents running along the shaft, this spear comes equipped with a cross piece designed to prevent impaled foes from sliding along the shaft of the spear and striking a blow at you as they die.  Like all spears, it can be used in one or both hands (+1D9 if used two-handed)."
1636	Savage Spear	Spear	"Composed entirely of a rare, bluish metal, the lower half of this spear is wrapped in an expensive leather.  A collector's item!  Like all spears, it can be used in one or both hands (+1D9 if used two-handed)."
1637	Sacred Spear	Spear	A smithy symbol and date stamp indicate this spear was made in the magical forges of Governor Padish 12 years before the Silence (+1D9 if used two-handed).
1638	Common Halberd	Halberd	"Combination poleax and spear, the halberd can inflict terrible wounds, but recovers slowly from swings.  This one is of average quality and workmanship (+1D6 if used two-handed)."
1639	Massive Halberd	Halberd	"Of solid construction, this halberd has a particularly heavy blade.  Wielded by a mighty warrior, it could surely be used to slay the toughest of monsters (+1D6 if used two-handed)."
1640	Elite Halberd	Halberd	"A small stamp on the blade of this weapon indicates it was constructed in the famous Mekorig Foundry by the master himself, Mekorig the Blind.  You would be hard pressed to find a finer Halberd anywhere in the world (+1D6 if used two-handed)."
1641	Trident	Trident	"Common war tridents, like this one, are good quality weapons issued by the Imperial Regnan Navy to facilitate the collection of Imperial tariffs on the high seas.  Most merchants and other governments refer to this activity as piracy(+1D6 if used two-handed)."
1642	Ornate Trident	Trident	A high quality war trident of the style given to officers of the Imperial Regnan Navy.  This one was probably taken from the officer during an Imperial Taxation battle that went poorly for the Navy (+1D6 if used two-handed).
1643	Titanic Trident	Trident	"This beautiful trident is mostly made of Kergar, a rare, bluish metal that does not rust or lose its edge over time (+1D6 if used two-handed)."
1644	Crude Longbow	Longbow	A simple longbow constructed of common materials and uninspired design.
1645	Elven Bow	Longbow	A weapon only made by the Elves of the great Erathian forests.  This one reflects the same high quality workmanship found in all Elvish artifacts.
1646	Precision Bow	Longbow	Etched initials at the base of the bow indicate this bow was made by master bowyer Ivan Selving's workshop during the Timber Wars against the Elves of Erathia in the late 600's.
1647	Magic Bow	Longbow	This bow is composed of strange materials and bound together by subtle enchantments.  It is extremely light and accurate.
1648	Stellar Bow	Longbow	"Created by stripping the Heavenly Forges of their enchanted parts when they became useless some years after the Silence, very few of these bows have survived the passage of time.  What few remain are hoarded by the Elves and individual collectors."
1649	Crossbow	Crossbow	"Crossbows are the deadliest ranged weapons made since the Time of Wonders.  This crossbow is made of stout Yew wood and metal fixtures, but is otherwise rather ordinary."
1650	Accurate Crossbow	Crossbow	"These crossbows were stockpiled by Archibald just prior to the Succession War for use against his brother.  As with most decisions involving death, Archibald chose wisely.  These crossbows are amongst the best in the land."
1651	True Crossbow	Crossbow	"Equipped with a hand crank and shaft sights, these exceptional crossbows are superior to all that have come before.  Just where they are coming from is a mystery at this time"
1652	Simple Mace	Mace	"Little more than a glorified club, this common mace is made of ordinary materials and unexceptional craftsmanship."
1653	Wicked Mace	Mace	"Solidly designed to inflict fatal injuries, even through armor.  The balance is a little top heavy, but the craftsmanship is good."
1654	Thunder Mace	Mace	"This mace is one of thousands turned out by the Heavenly Forges before the Silence.  But that was more than a thousand years ago, and not many remain."
1655	Wonder Mace	Mace	Only magic could make such an ungainly weapon so light and yet hit so hard.
1656	Death Mace	Mace	"Constructed by the Necromancer's guild just prior to their fall during the Succession War, these unusual weapons are almost always enchanted with powerful magics."
1657	Massive hammer	Hammer	"A graceless and unimaginative weapon, hammers are slow, but hit very hard.  This one is of common construction and materials."
1658	Dark Hammer	Hammer	"A step up in construction quality, these hammers are commonly wielded by humanoid monsters.  Since everyone knows most monsters don't make weapons, the question 'from where are they getting them?' arises"
1659	Holy Hammer	Hammer	"Magically constructed, these hammers are the property of the Church of the Moon in Karigor."
1660	Club	Club	"A primitive weapon usable by even the stupidest of monsters.  You're not thinking of using this, are you?"
1661	Spiked Club	Club	"An improvement over the simple club, this spiked club will inflict nastier wounds."
1662	Killer Club	Club	"King of the club family.  If this weapon had a knob or ball on the end, it would be a mace.  There is evidence of real craftsmanship in this club, but you can see no true identifying marks that would indicate who created it."
1663	Staff	Staff	"The staff is the traditional weapon of the oppressed.  This one is unremarkable, and the ruby at the end of it is actually just colored glass."
1664	Emerald Staff	Staff	"Magically light and hard, this staff is made of a rare wood stripped from the Elves during the Timber War in 600 A.S.  The emerald at the end of it is real, and probably serves as a magical reservoir from which the staff draws its strength."
1665	Power Staff	Staff	"This staff, along with others of its kind, was found in the treasure room of the Necromancer's guild after their disastrous defeat by Roland at the end of the Succession War."
1666	Blaster	Ancient Weapon	"A weapon of awesome power, clearly created during the Time of Wonders.  "
1667	Blaster Rifle	Ancient Weapon	"The finest of personal weapons made during the Time of Wonders, this Blaster Rifle can deal death faster than any weapon you have ever seen."
1668	Leather Jerkin	Leather Armor	"Lightest and most easily made among the armors, leather armor offers the least protection.  This particular suit is of average quality."
1669	Studded Leather	Leather Armor	Studded leather offers more protection than regular leather armor at the expense of being stiffer and weighing more.  This particular suit is well made.
1670	Enchanted Leather	Leather Armor	"An otherwise ordinary suit of leather armor, this suit is imbued with a subtle enchantment that strengthens the material against blows without increasing weight."
1671	Dragon Leather	Leather Armor	Standard issue leather armor for officers in the Regnan Navy.  All such leather armor receives enchantments to strengthen and lighten it during its creation in the Regnan Armories.
1672	Imperial Leather	Leather Armor	An extremely rare suit of leather armor created during the conflicts between the Church of the Moon and the Church of the Sun roughly 80 years ago.  These suits provide the finest protection available with leather armor.
1673	Chain Mail	Chain Mail	"Chain mail is an armor formed of small, interlocking loops of metal.  This suit is low quality:  the metal used is plain iron, there are only two layers of rings, and it is heavy and stiff for its size."
1674	Steel Chain Mail	Chain Mail	"A superior suit of chain mail, the metal used in this suit is steel, and the former owner was careful to keep the suit well oiled and free of rust."
1675	Noble Chain Mail	Chain Mail	"Cavalry officer's chain mail from the reign of Taledon V of Karigor, Divine High Priest and High Holy Conduit of the Church of the Sun, circa 870 A.S.  The armor is high quality chain, enchanted to lighten and strengthen the metal."
1676	Royal Chain Mail	Chain Mail	Highly enchanted armor worn by elvish nobility and royalty during the Timber Wars of the seventh and eighth centuries.
1677	Majestic Chain Mail	Chain Mail	"A very rare suit of armor turned out by the Heavenly Forges of Governor Padish before the Silence.  The armor was originally worn strictly by the Governor and his highest military officers as a badge of office.  It is not just for show; this chain mail is lighter, stronger, and more supple than any other chain in the world."
1678	Plate Armor	Plate Armor	"Composed of interlocking plates and joints, plate armor is the best unenchanted armor available.  It is, however, heavy and slows the movements of the wearer.  This particular suit is of average quality and the smith unknown."
1679	Steel Plate Armor	Plate Armor	Well constructed plates of steel work together to form an overall excellent suit of armor.  A foundry stamp under the right arm indicates it was forged recently in Kelebrim.
1680	Golden Plate Armor	Plate Armor	"This suit of plate armor was forged in the Mekorig foundry eighteen years after the death of Mekorig the Blind.  A masterwork, the armor is almost as easy to wear as ordinary clothes, and is probably the best armor available in the world."
1681	Kite Shield	Large Shield	"Formed of stretched hides over a wooden frame, this simple shield provides basic protection against physical attacks."
1682	Tower Shield	Large Shield	The simplicity of the heraldic design on this shield leads one to believe it was created either by barbarians or goblins.  It is made of sturdy materials and should stand up reasonably well in combat.
1683	Castle Shield	Large Shield	"This shield is made of wood framed by iron.  It is somewhat heavy for its size, but it should see you through a battle safely--as long as  you're not backstabbed."
1684	Celestial Shield	Large Shield	"Made of a lightweight metal, this shield has a foundry stamp from the Kelebrim armory.  Though light, the material is very strong, and the metal is welded almost seamlessly.  "
1685	Olympian Shield	Large Shield	"These shields were forged by the Phynaxian empire during its brief rise to power on the steppes of southern Erathia (790-864).  They are made of stalt, a metal that takes well to enchantment, and contributed heavily to Phynaxian military might.  Unfortunately, very little of the metal could be mined, and Phynaxia fell in 864 A.S. to an Elvish offensive."
1686	Wooden Shield	Small Shield	A small wooden shield designed to protect mostly against arrows.
1687	Bronze Shield	Small Shield	"Bronze shields are lighter than iron shields of the same size, but aren't nearly as strong."
1688	Steel Shield	Small Shield	"Since this shield is made of tempered steel, it should resist all but the most unusual of enchanted weapons."
1689	Spirit Shield	Small Shield	"Spirit shields are ordinary steel shields enchanted through a ritualistic process that can have powerful, albeit unpredictable results.  The process is time consuming and requires the undivided attention of at least three masters of Spirit magic."
1690	Astral Shield	Small Shield	"These rare shields were turned out by the hundreds with the aid of the Heavenly Forges to combat rebel forces in the endless string of skirmishes and supply raids that tested (and finally overcame) the Governor's forces in the first century A.S.  As with all such equipment, it is light, tough, and is capable of holding the most powerful enchantments."
1691	Helm	Helm	"An ordinary helm.  This one is made of hides stretched over wood.  There's no fur or padding on the inside, so your head will probably ring like a bell when struck a solid blow."
1692	Steel Helm	Helm	This is a common steel helm.  The design is a good one and has been used for centuries by warriors all around the world.  Best guess is this helm is 50-75 years old.
1693	Guardian Helm	Helm	This helm design has been used by the Elves of Erathia since before the Silence.  It is composed of silver and steel and is very strong.
1694	Defender Helm	Helm	"Half made from the skull of the ferocious Mogred beast in Karigor, these helms grow more uncommon every year as the Mogreds approach extinction.  The red stripes around the horns of the helm are highly receptive to enchantment."
1695	Angelic Helm	Helm	"These helms are extremely rare and no one knows where they originate, but they almost certainly come from the Time of Wonders.  An extremely fine inscription inside the helm says  'Property of Ship's Store, VARN MCMIV'."
1696	Cloth Hat	Hat	"A common hat.  The material is a blend of cotton and wool, and the feather is from a duck."
1697	Fancy Hat	Hat	"Quite fashionable and stylish, these hats are in vogue amongst the upper classes and those seeking to emulate them."
1698	Wizard Cap	Hat	"Don't laugh--while silly--even ridiculous--in appearance, many sorcerers spend quite a bit of time enchanting hats like this with powerful magics.  The conical shape and 'eyes' in the front of the hat are peculiarly attractive to creatures of the spirit world, and that property makes the hat easier to enchant."
1699	Crown	Crown	"This is a poorly wrought crown, the kind that goblins or low budget actors might create to mock royalty.  It offers no real head protection, although it may carry some small enchantment."
1700	Regal Crown	Crown	"A large, imperfect sapphire is inset in the center of this delicate silver crown.  Extremely fine hammer marks suggest this crown was made by dwarven hands."
1701	Almighty Crown	Crown	"Crowns of this sort are typically created with the use of magic to enhance their susceptibility to magic.  If found with no enchantments whatsoever, the crown was probably left unfinished for some reason. "
1702	Leather Belt	Belt	A common strip of leather used to hold up your pants.
1703	Mercenary Belt	Belt	"A wide leather belt with a big, flashy buckle of a kind favored by bandits and mercenaries.  Both mercenaries and bandits like to have charms or minor enchantments placed on them as battle aids."
1704	Vanguard Belt	Belt	"Cured dragonhide and polished bronze are fastened together to form a belt of unusual strength and resistance to magic.  Although difficult to work with, these belts can offer excellent protection against magic once an enchantment is successfully laid upon them."
1705	Warlord Belt	Belt	"Made of silver and the hide of some unknown creature, this belt is studded with vertical strips of a golden alloy.  The buckle is a single, large opal inset in a platinum base."
1706	Sovereign Belt	Belt	"Though soft and flexible, the material of this belt is made up of extremely fine strands of white gold.  The white gold is braided together by a process too exacting for human hands, and the ruby set into the buckle was perfectly cut by a process long lost in time."
1707	Leather Cloak	Cloak	A used leather cloak.  It smells faintly of mothballs and dust.
1708	Phantom Cloak	Cloak	Indigo dye from the Regnan Archipelago was used to stain this wool cloak the color of a summer night's sky.
1709	Elven Cloak	Cloak	"Woven from plant fibers found in the forests of Erathia, these cloaks are the traditional garb of the Elven Rangers."
1710	Cardinal Cloak	Cloak	A cloak formerly worn by high officials of the Church of the Sun of Karigor prior to the dissolution of the Church in 1083 A.S.  Nearly all these cloaks were enchanted in one way or another.
1711	Doom's Day Cloak	Cloak	A cloak formerly worn by high officials of the Church of the Moon of Karigor prior to the dissolution of the Church in 1083 A.S.  Nearly all these cloaks were enchanted in one way or another.
1712	Gauntlets	Gauntlets	A steel plated gauntlet of simple make and design.
1713	Knight Gauntlets	Gauntlets	"This gauntlet is an improvement over the simple, inflexible steel gauntlets commonly worn by goblins and brigands.  The back of the hand and wrist are solid, while the jointing around the fingers is made of chain links to improve dexterity."
1714	Paladin Gauntlets	Gauntlets	"While lacking in flexibility, this gauntlet has reinforced joints over the knuckles and at the base of the wrist."
1715	Cavalier Gauntlets	Gauntlets	"A high quality gauntlet, it offers both flexibility and protection.  The joints are reinforced, yet are 'soft' enough to permit nearly normal hand motion."
1716	Ultimate Gauntlets	Gauntlets	"Dwarven smiths created this masterpiece of gauntlet design.  Except for the extra bulk, there seems little difference between this gauntlet and a velvet glove.  Clever sliding and rotating plates at the joints and wrist permit full normal hand motion while providing continuous protection at all times."
1717	Leather Boots	Boots	Common traveler's boots made with leather and hobnailed.
1718	Steel Boots	Boots	Heavy steel boots made for solid foot protection in battle.  They are uncomfortable to walk in and have a tendency to rust on the inside.
1719	Armored Boots	Boots	The interior of these steel plated boots is made of leather and cloth to soften the sharp edges on the metal plates.  They are a bit heavy and exhausting to wear for extended periods.
1720	Sterling Boots	Boots	"Polished silver boots with velvet interiors, these boots are lighter than steel boots and far more comfortable.  They look pretty snappy, too."
1721	Ultimate Boots	Boots	"Dragonhide boots reinforced with molded horn strips and stalt metal rivets.  Soft and light, they provide unparalleled foot protection."
1722	Fine Ring	Ring	A small golden ring with a quarter carat diamond.  The style is simple and elegant.
1723	Sparkling Ring	Ring	Two amethysts adorn this plain platinum ring.
1724	Lunar Ring	Ring	A gold ring with a large moonstone set in the center.  These rings typically carry an enchantment.
1725	Witch Ring	Ring	Rings such as this one were worn by the Witch's guild to signify membership during their heyday between 550-800 A.S.
1726	Blessed Ring	Ring	"The three pearls mounted on a gold base glimmer a faint blue when held out in the sun, offering insight as to the source of their magic."
1727	Valuable Ring	Ring	A large star sapphire flanked by two smaller rubies decorate an otherwise plain gold band.
1728	Precious Ring	Ring	"Three gems, symmetrically equal in size and quality adorn a hammered gold band.  The center gem is a ruby, and the two flanking gems are purple topazes."
1729	Ethereal Ring	Ring	"A hammered white gold ring with a large central diamond and two small pearls, light doesn't fall upon it normally.  The ring glitters and fades unpredictably, as though it were lit by an invisible sun shining in an unseen, yet parallel world.  "
1730	Exquisite Ring	Ring	Three opals rimmed with a strange red metal are set in a perfect ring of stalt--a very rare metal found only in southern Erathia.
1731	Scarab Ring	Ring	"A gold band adorned with the shell of a rare beetle found only in the deserts of Enroth.  Treated properly by an alchemist, these shells can be made to hold the mightiest of enchantments."
1732	Turquoise Amulet	Amulet	"A turquoise stone bracketed by a bronze chain and clasp makes for an inexpensive, yet charming amulet."
1733	Gothic Amulet	Amulet	This bizarre amulet was probably created by some alchemist with a distorted understanding of magic.  The shape and symmetry help to maintain whatever enchantment he put in it.
1734	Claw Amulet	Amulet	"The ossified foot of some unknown beast or monster has been inset with a huge, imperfect purple topaz.  It's not pretty, but it's certainly magical."
1735	Ancient Amulet	Amulet	"This amulet is composed of two pieces:  the front piece is an ancient, perfectly cut rectangle of a strong, stainless metal.  The backing is a much more recent gold chain and clasp.  Careful inspection of the front piece reveals it to be a plaque displaying the name of some long dead soldier or worker.  Symbols on the front probably indicate status and rank."
1736	Ruby Star Amulet	Amulet	"A perfect ruby cut in a star shape and bracketed by a golden clasp give this amulet its name.  When viewed in dim light, a fiery spark can be seen dancing in the center of the gem."
1737	Wand of Fire	Wand	"A rod of blue metal and wood capped with a blue headstone.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1738	Wand of Sparks	Wand	"A rod of blue metal and wood capped with a blue headstone.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1739	Wand of Poison	Wand	"A rod of blue metal and wood capped with a blue headstone.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1740	Wand of Stunning	Wand	"A rod of blue metal and wood capped with a blue headstone.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1741	Wand of Harming	Wand	"A rod of blue metal and wood capped with a blue headstone.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1742	Fairy Wand of Light	Wand	"More a staff than a wand, this fairy wand is inexplicably alive, even though it was cut from its parent tree many years ago.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1743	Fairy Wand of Ice	Wand	"More a staff than a wand, this fairy wand is inexplicably alive, even though it was cut from its parent tree many years ago.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1744	Fairy Wand of Lashing	Wand	"More a staff than a wand, this fairy wand is inexplicably alive, even though it was cut from its parent tree many years ago.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1745	Fairy Wand of Mind	Wand	"More a staff than a wand, this fairy wand is inexplicably alive, even though it was cut from its parent tree many years ago.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1746	Fairy Wand of Swarms	Wand	"More a staff than a wand, this fairy wand is inexplicably alive, even though it was cut from its parent tree many years ago.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1747	Alacorn Wand of Fireballs	Wand	"Made from the hollowed out horn of a unicorn and spitted on a piece of polished wood, wands like these are born of cruelty and evil.  The enchantment it holds is useful;  the only real question is whether you believe your cause justifies the use of an item so wickedly created.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1748	Alacorn Wand of Acid	Wand	"Made from the hollowed out horn of a unicorn and spitted on a piece of polished wood, wands like these are born of cruelty and evil.  The enchantment it holds is useful;  the only real question is whether you believe your cause justifies the use of an item so wickedly created.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1749	Alacorn Wand of Lightning	Wand	"Made from the hollowed out horn of a unicorn and spitted on a piece of polished wood, wands like these are born of cruelty and evil.  The enchantment it holds is useful;  the only real question is whether you believe your cause justifies the use of an item so wickedly created.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1750	Alacorn Wand of Blades	Wand	"Made from the hollowed out horn of a unicorn and spitted on a piece of polished wood, wands like these are born of cruelty and evil.  The enchantment it holds is useful;  the only real question is whether you believe your cause justifies the use of an item so wickedly created.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1751	Alacorn Wand of Berzerking	Wand	"Made from the hollowed out horn of a unicorn and spitted on a piece of polished wood, wands like these are born of cruelty and evil.  The enchantment it holds is useful;  the only real question is whether you believe your cause justifies the use of an item so wickedly created.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1752	Arcane Wand of Blasting	Wand	"Made of a reddish metal, the egg of a cockatrice fixed to the business end caps a wand containing a mighty enchantment.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1753	Arcane Wand of the Fist	Wand	"Made of a reddish metal, the egg of a cockatrice fixed to the business end caps a wand containing a mighty enchantment.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1754	Arcane Wand of Rocks	Wand	"Made of a reddish metal, the egg of a cockatrice fixed to the business end caps a wand containing a mighty enchantment.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1755	Arcane Wand of Paralyzing	Wand	"Made of a reddish metal, the egg of a cockatrice fixed to the business end caps a wand containing a mighty enchantment.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1756	Arcane Wand of Clouds	Wand	"Made of a reddish metal, the egg of a cockatrice fixed to the business end caps a wand containing a mighty enchantment.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1757	Mystic Wand of Implosion	Wand	"Formed of the clawed forepaw of a baby dragon, wands like this one can hold the strongest of spells.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1758	Mystic Wand of Distortion	Wand	"Formed of the clawed forepaw of a baby dragon, wands like this one can hold the strongest of spells.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1759	Mystic Wand of Shrapmetal	Wand	"Formed of the clawed forepaw of a baby dragon, wands like this one can hold the strongest of spells.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1760	Mystic Wand of Shrinking	Wand	"Formed of the clawed forepaw of a baby dragon, wands like this one can hold the strongest of spells.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1761	Mystic Wand of Incineration	Wand	"Formed of the clawed forepaw of a baby dragon, wands like this one can hold the strongest of spells.  To use this wand, you must equip it as though you were equipping a weapon."
1762	Poppysnaps	Herb	"A magical herb of unusual properties.  Popppysnaps can be used to make potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1763	Phirna Root	Herb	"A magical herb of unusual properties.  Phirna Root can be used to make potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1764	Widoweeps Berries	Herb	"A magical herb of unusual properties.  Widoweeps Berries can be used to make potions.  (To use, pick the herb up and right-click over an empty potion bottle.)"
1765	Potion Bottle	Potion Bottle	An empty potion bottle.
1766	Cure Wounds	Red Potion	"Restores 10 hit points.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1767	Magic Potion	Blue Potion	"Restores 10 spell points.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1768	Energy	Yellow Potion	"Adds 10 to primary statistics temporarily.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1769	Protection	Orange Potion	"Adds 10 to armor class temporarily.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1770	Resistance	Green Potion	"Adds 10 to resistances temporarily.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1771	Cure Poison	Purple Potion	"Cures Poison.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1772	Supreme Protection	White Potion	"Adds 20 to armor class temporarily.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1773	Restoration	White Potion	"Cures all conditions except dead or stoned.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1774	Extreme Energy	White Potion	"Adds 20 to primary statistics temporarily.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1775	Super Resistance	White Potion	"Adds 20 to resistances temporarily.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1776	Heroism	White Potion	"Grants Heroism (as the spell) for 6 hours.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1777	Haste	White Potion	"Grants Haste (as the spell) for 6 hours.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1778	Stone Skin	White Potion	"Grants Stone Skin (as the spell) for 6 hours.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1779	Bless	White Potion	"Grants Bless (as the spell) for 6 hours.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1780	Divine Power	Black Potion	"Adds 20 to level temporarily and adds 1 year of age.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1781	Divine Cure	Black Potion	"Adds 100 hit points if at or below maximum and adds 1 year of age.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1782	Divine Magic	Black Potion	"Adds 100 spell points if at or below maximum and adds 1 year of age.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1783	Essence of Might	Black Potion	"Once only:  Adds 15 to Might and subtracts 5 from Intellect permanently.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1784	Essence of Intellect	Black Potion	"Once only:  Adds 15 to Intellect and subtracts 5 from Might permanently.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1785	Essence of Personality	Black Potion	"Once only:  Adds 15 to Personality and subtracts 5 from Speed permanently.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1786	Essence of Endurance	Black Potion	"Once only:  Adds 15 to Endurance and subtracts 1 from all other statistics permanently.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1787	Essence of Accuracy	Black Potion	"Once only:  Adds 15 to Accuracy and subtracts 5 from Luck permanently.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1788	Essence of Speed	Black Potion	"Once only:  Adds 15 to Speed and subtracts 5 from Personality permanently.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1789	Essence of Luck	Black Potion	"Once only:  Adds 15 to Luck and subtracts 5 from Accuracy permanently.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1790	Rejuvenation	Black Potion	"Removes all magical aging effects and subtracts 1 from all 7 primary statistics.  To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1791	Potion Bottle	Potion Bottle	"To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1792	Potion Bottle	Potion Bottle	"To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1793	Potion Bottle	Potion Bottle	"To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1794	Potion Bottle	Potion Bottle	"To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1795	Potion Bottle	Potion Bottle	"To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1796	Potion Bottle	Potion Bottle	"To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1797	Potion Bottle	Potion Bottle	"To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1798	Potion Bottle	Potion Bottle	"To drink, pick the potion up and right-click over a character's portrait.  To mix, pick the potion up and right-click over another potion."
1799	Gold	Gold	A small pile of gold coins.
1800	Gold	Gold	A pile of gold coins.
1801	Gold	Gold	A large pile of gold coins.
1802	Torch Light	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1803	Fire Bolt	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1804	Fire Resistance	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1805	Fire Aura	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1806	Haste	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1807	Fireball	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1808	Fire Spike	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1809	Immolation	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1810	Meteor Shower	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1811	Inferno	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1812	Incinerate	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1813	Wizard Eye	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1814	Feather Fall	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1815	Air Resistance	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1816	Sparks	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1817	Feather Fall	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1818	Shield	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1819	Lightning Bolt	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1820	Invisibility	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1821	Implosion	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1822	Fly	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1823	Starburst	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1824	Awaken	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1825	Poison Spray	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1826	Water Resistance	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1827	Ice Bolt	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1828	Water Walk	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1829	Recharge Item	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1830	Acid Burst	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1831	Enchant Item	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1832	Town Portal	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1833	Ice Blast	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1834	Lloyd's Beacon	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1835	Stun	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1836	Slow	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1837	Earth Resistance	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1838	Deadly Swarm	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1839	Stone Skin	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1840	Blades	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1841	Stone to Flesh	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1842	Rock Blast	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1843	Telekinesis	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1844	Death Blossom	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1845	Mass Distortion	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1846	Detect Life	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1847	Bless	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1848	Fate	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1849	Turn Undead	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1850	Remove Curse	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1851	Preservation	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1852	Heroism	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1853	Spirit Lash	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1854	Raise Dead	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1855	Shared Life	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1856	Resurrection	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1857	Telepathy	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1858	Remove Fear	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1859	Mind Resistance	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1860	Mind Blast	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1861	Charm	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1862	Cure Paralysis	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1863	Berserk	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1864	Mass Fear	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1865	Cure Insanity	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1866	Psychic Shock	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1867	Enslave	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1868	Cure Weakness	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1869	Heal	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1870	Body Resistance	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1871	Harm	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1872	Regeneration	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1873	Cure Poison	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1874	Hammerhands	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1875	Cure Disease	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1876	Protection from Magic	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1877	Flying Fist	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1878	Power Cure	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1879	Light Bolt	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1880	Destroy Undead	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1881	Dispel Magic	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1882	Paralyze	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1883	Summon Wisp	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1884	Day of the Gods	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1885	Prismatic Light	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1886	Day of Protection	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1887	Hour of Power	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1888	Sunray	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1889	Divine Intervention	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1890	Reanimate	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1891	Toxic Cloud	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1892	Vampiric Weapon	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1893	Shrinking Ray	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1894	Shrapmetal	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1895	Control Undead	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1896	Pain Reflection	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1897	Dark Grasp	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1898	Dragon Breath	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1899	Armageddon	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1900	Souldrinker	Spell Scroll	"A spell scroll.  To cast this spell, pick the scroll up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen."
1901			
1902	Torch Light	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1903	Fire Bolt	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1904	Fire Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1905	Fire Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1906	Fire Aura	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1907	Fire Aura	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1908	Haste	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1909	Fireball	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1910	Fire Spike	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1911	Immolation	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1912	Meteor Shower	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1913	Inferno	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1914	Incinerate	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Fire magic skill to learn this spell."
1915	Wizard Eye	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1916	Feather Fall	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1917	Air Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1918	Air Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1919	Sparks	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1920	Sparks	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1921	Jump	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1922	Shield	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1923	Lightning Bolt	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1924	Invisibility	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1925	Implosion	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1926	Fly	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1927	Starburst	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Air magic skill to learn this spell."
1928	Awaken	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1929	Poison Spray	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1930	Water Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1931	Water Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1932	Ice Bolt	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1933	Ice Bolt	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1934	Water Walk	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1935	Recharge Item	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1936	Acid Burst	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1937	Enchant Item	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1938	Town Portal	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1939	Ice Blast	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1940	Lloyd's Beacon	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Water magic skill to learn this spell."
1941	Stun	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1942	Slow	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1943	Earth Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1944	Earth Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1945	Deadly Swarm	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1946	Deadly Swarm	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1947	Stone Skin	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1948	Blades	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1949	Stone to Flesh	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1950	Rock Blast	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1951	Telekinesis	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1952	Death Blossom	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1953	Mass Distortion	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Earth magic skill to learn this spell."
1954	Detect Life	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1955	Bless	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1956	Fate	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1957	Fate	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1958	Turn Undead	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1959	Turn Undead	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1960	Remove Curse	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1961	Preservation	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1962	Heroism	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1963	Spirit Lash	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1964	Raise Dead	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1965	Shared Life	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1966	Resurrection	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Spirit magic skill to learn this spell."
1967	Telepathy	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1968	Remove Fear	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1969	Mind Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1970	Mind Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1971	Mind Blast	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1972	Mind Blast	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1973	Charm	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1974	Cure Paralysis	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1975	Berserk	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1976	Mass Fear	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1977	Cure Insanity	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1978	Psychic Shock	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1979	Enslave	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Mind magic skill to learn this spell."
1980	Cure Weakness	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1981	Heal	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1982	Body Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1983	Body Resistance	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1984	Harm	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1985	Harm	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1986	Regeneration	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1987	Cure Poison	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1988	Hammerhands	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1989	Cure Disease	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1990	Protection from Magic	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1991	Flying Fist	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1992	Power Cure	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Body magic skill to learn this spell."
1993	Light Bolt	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
1994	Destroy Undead	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
1995	Dispel Magic	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
1996	Dispel Magic	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
1997	Paralyze	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
1998	Paralyze	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
1999	Summon Wisp	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
2000	Day of the Gods	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
2001	Prismatic Light	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
2002	Day of Protection	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
2003	Hour of Power	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
2004	Sunray	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
2005	Divine Intervention	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Light magic skill to learn this spell."
2006	Reanimate	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
2007	Toxic Cloud	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
2008	Vampiric Weapon	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
2009	Vampiric Weapon	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
2010	Shrinking Ray	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
2011	Shrinking Ray	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
2012	Shrapmetal	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
2013	Control Undead	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
2014	Pain Reflection	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
2015	Dark Grasp	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
2016	Dragon Breath	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
2017	Armageddon	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
2018	Souldrinker	Book of Learning	"A spell book.  To learn this spell, pick the book up and left-click over the picture of your character in the inventory screen.  Your character must know the Dark magic skill to learn this spell."
2019			
2020	Mordred	Artifact	"One of nine such blades in the world, Mordred was made by the Brotherhood in 428 A.S. as part of their first experiments in the development of Dark Magic.  Their hope was to find a way to extend one person's life at the expense of another's, but instead of reversing ages, they merely found a way to steal health.  (Special Powers:  Vampiric)"
2021	Thor	Artifact	"The origins of Thor are lost in time, but this mighty barbarian weapon is well remembered by military historians.  The weapon has been used in battles by many owners for centuries, although its last appearance was at the battle of Shimengard in 902 A.S..  The force of a blow from this hammer is so powerful that it can knock foes several feet back away from the wielder.  (Special Powers:  Force)"
2022	Conan	Artifact	This mighty axe is enchanted to destroy dragons and devils.  It has a way of finding an owner who is both likely to come across such monsters and is strong enough to fight them.  (Special Powers:  Devil and Dragon Slaying)
2023	Excalibur	Artifact	"Heavy, yet seemingly light as a feather in skilled hands, Excalibur confers great might upon its wielder.  Opponents do not easily walk away from blows struck by this legendary weapon.  (Special Powers:  +30 Might)"
2024	Merlin	Artifact	"Traditionally carried by the High Druid, but lost during struggles over religious doctrine, Merlin acts as a reservoir of spell power the wielder can draw upon at any time.  Merlin is enchanted with swiftness, and rains blows upon enemies much faster than an ordinary staff. (Special Powers:  Swiftness and +40 Spell Points)"
2025	Percival	Artifact	"Percival was enchanted by the Archer's Guild in 912 A.S. as the prototype in an enchantment process they were developing at the time.  Unfortunately, a suspicious fire broke out at the guild hall, ruining the development plans and destroying the exotic materials needed to create more Percivals.  The guild never recovered from their losses, and sold Percival to the Elves in 918 A.S..  It has since changed hands many times.  (Special Powers:  Swiftness and Carnage)"
2026	Galahad	Artifact	"Perhaps the finest chain mail created since the Silence, Galahad's material strength enchantments are so strong they are somewhat conferred upon the wearer's body, making it capable of withstanding much more abuse than normal.  (Special Powers:  Protection and +25 Hit Points)  "
2027	Pellinore	Artifact	"Named after an ancient knight, Pellinore fortifies the wearer with an unnatural health so strong that the wearer heals from serious injuries in a matter of hours.  The armor is quite heavy, and protects the wearer from being knocked about during combat.  (Special Powers:  +30 Endurance, Hit Recovery, and Hit Point Regeneration)"
2028	Valeria	Artifact	"Commissioned by King David IV of Erathia during the Timber Wars, Valeria not only shields the user from normal blows, but helps intercept many incoming arrows by magically focusing the wielder's attention on the flight of the missile.  The same enchantment that makes the shielding effect possible also increases the wielder's accuracy enormously.  (Special Powers:  Shielding and +30 Accuracy)"
2029	Arthur	Artifact	"In their endless quest to create the perfect Priest-King, the priests of the Church of the Sun created Arthur and imbued it with the power to heighten the wearer's personal abilities, as well as confer more magical energy.  It worked, heightening their King's natural abilities--and his pride.  In 1073, Leopold VII started a holy war against the rival Church of the Moon, grinding both organizations into poverty and ultimately resulting in their demise.  (Special Powers:  'of the Gods' and +25 Spell Points)"
2030	Pendragon	Artifact	"This cape originally belonged to Alastair Blane, Master thief of the Shadow Guild.  The cape increased his luck and certain thieving skills tremendously, enabling him to pursue a long and prosperous career.  Blane was never brought to justice for his crimes--he was instead killed over a card game for cheating while wearing the cloak to better his chances.  (Special Powers:  +30 Luck, Thievery, Immunity to Poison)"
2031	Lucius	Artifact	"No one knows where or when these magical boots were made, but many tales refer to them turning up in the most unusual places.  They grant their wearer superhuman quickness and grace of motion.  (Special Powers:  +30 Speed)"
2032	Guinevere	Artifact	"Guinevere was created by the Alchemist Guild under the stones of Castle Kriegspire many years ago.  It boosts the magical resources available to its wearer, and eases the use of spells of the Mirrored Path.  (Special Powers:  +30 Spell Points, 'of Light Magic' and 'of Dark Magic')"
2033	Igraine	Artifact	"Lord Solomon Stone had this ring commissioned during his tenure as High Priest of the Path in 1018.  It gives a huge boost to a user's ability in clerical magic, as well as access to a good deal of magical energy.  (Special Powers:  +25 Spell Points and 'of Body, Mind, and Spirit Magic')"
2034	Morgan	Artifact	"Though Morgan's origins are unknown, Morgan has had many owners in the last hundred years, all of them unknown before finding the amulet.  The amulet is so mighty, as a matter of fact, that any peasant or child that lays hands on it is sure to become a legend in his own time.  (Special Powers:  +20 Spell Points and 'of Fire, Air, Water, and Earth Magic')"
2035	Hades	Relic	"A powerful weapon said to have been delivered up from the Netherworld in response to the wish of a prolific mass murderer.  The weapon inflicts terrible wounds with its razor sharp edge and drips acid constantly.  Not only a terrible weapon, the sword bestows the cunning of a master thief for disarming traps and the luck of the devil in escaping the damage they do.  Hades draws its power from its wielder slowly and constantly.  (Special Powers:  +20 Poison Damage, +20 Luck, Thievery, and Negative Regeneration)"
2036	Ares	Relic	"A powerful war-mace, Ares burns with fires from the heart of the mountain it was made from.  The same magic that causes it to burn with a terrible fire bestows resistance to fire upon its wielder.  (Special Powers:  +30 Fire Damage, +25 Fire Resistance)"
2037	Poseidon	Relic	"This trident is probably what inspired the Regnan navy to adopt the trident as their favorite weapon of war.  Poseidon fills its wielder with a frightening battle rage, increasing the wielder's might, endurance and accuracy at the cost of personal safety.  So consuming is the wielder's desire to smite his enemies while using Poseidon that he neglects to dodge blows he might otherwise have avoided.  On the other hand, dead enemies (usually) don't fight back.  (Special Powers:  +20 Might, +20 Endurance, +20 Accuracy, -10 Armor Class, and -10 Speed)"
2038	Cronos	Relic	"More a magical curiosity than a truly useful weapon, Cronos increases the wielder's vitality fantastically, and decreases his luck by half as much.  (Special Powers:  +100 Hit Points and -50 Luck)"
2039	Hercules	Relic	"A huge sword meant for the unsubtle, Hercules fills its wielder with the strength of a hundred men.  In keeping with its 'big and stupid' theme, the sword reduces the intelligence of its wielder while held.  (Special Powers:  +50 Might, +20 Endurance, and -30 Intellect)"
2040	Artemis	Relic	"Graced with the might of thunder, Artemus fires bolts magically charged with electricity.  While powerful, the user of the bow should be careful--elemental magics seem drawn to the bow, and do more damage when they hit the wielder.  (Special Powers:  +20 Electricity damage, -10 to Resistances)"
2041	Apollo	Relic	"This unique armor graces its owner with luck, helping him to escape the brunt of most elemental attacks.  It draws its energy, however, from the constitution of its wearer, making the wearing of this armor a risky proposition.  (Special Powers:  +20 to Resistances, +20 Luck, and -30 Endurance)"
2042	Zeus	Relic	"Perhaps this suit of armor was meant only for the Gods.  Worn at times by barbarian chieftains, the armor will increase the physical vitality and magical energy the wearer has at his disposal, but at a terrible cost.  House plants have been known to score higher on intelligence tests than wearers of this armor.  One would think that accidental death would surely follow such a precipitous loss of thought, yet the luck the armor bestows seems to prevent disaster.  Often the wearer of the armor becomes so stupid he forgets to remove it.  (Special Powers:  +50 Hit Points, +50 Spell Points,  +50 Luck, and -50 Intellect)"
2043	Aegis	Relic	"Legend has it this shield was given as a gift from the Gods to a man wishing to fight the terrible medusas in their stronghold.  The shield is reflective and prevents the wielder from being frozen by the stoning gaze of the medusa.  It also carries an enchantment that helps protect against arrows, but the shield is very heavy and will slow the user down a bit.  (Special Powers:  Immune to Flesh to Stone effects, Shielding +20 Luck, and -20 Speed)"
2044	Odin	Relic	"This crown is a mighty relic that protects against elemental magic attacks of all kinds, but has a flaw that slows the wearer down tremendously.  (Special Powers:  +50 to Resistances and -40 Speed)"
2045	Atlas	Relic	"Legends say this cape was discarded by a God who became annoyed with the cape's magical slowing of his actions.  It confers an incomparable might to its wearer, at a large cost to speed.  (Special Powers:  +100 Might and -40 Speed)"
2046	Hermes	Relic	"A relic from before the Silence, these boots must conceal some hidden magic as they are very heavy, yet light once worn.  They act upon the nerves and muscles of their wearer, heightening his speed and reflexes to inhuman levels, but simultaneously causing inaccuracy and over-compensation.  The boots have been owned by many through the ages, all of whom have died from some speed related accident, like running up a hill at blazing speeds and then falling down the cliff at the top.  (Special Powers:  +100 Speed and -40 Accuracy)"
2047	Aphrodite	Relic	"Desired and sought after by the foolish for ages, this beautiful ring smoothes the skin, clears the voice, and dramatically improves the physical beauty of its wearer, as well as enhancing the personality.  The ring also carries a curse of ill luck, and the wearer usually dies of some tragic accident soon after finding the ring.  (Special Powers:  +100 Personality and -40 Luck)"
2048	Athena	Relic	"Also known as the Scholar's Ring, Athena vastly sharpens and improves the intellect of its wearer at the cost physical might.  Though the effect upon the physical body is nearly crippling, most sorcerers find the temptation to wear the ring too great to resist.  (Special Powers:  +100 Intellect and -40 Might)"
2049	Hera	Relic	"Sometimes referred to as the Amulet of the Fool, this curious relic from before the Silence dramatically increases the personal vitality, magical energy, and luck of the wearer at the expense of personality.  While the armor is worn, the face goes slack, the eyes vacant, and the voice subsides to a monotone.  (Special Powers:  +50 Hit Points, +50 Spell Points, +50 Luck, and -50 Personality)"
2050	Leather Pouch	Leather Pouch	A small leather pouch.
2051	Leather Pouch	Leather Pouch	A small leather pouch.
2052	Leather Pouch	Leather Pouch	A small leather pouch.
2053	Hourglass of Time	Hourglass	"Quest Item: A fine hourglass made of crystal, framed with teak wood and filled with crushed pearl dust.  It is obviously enchanted."
2054	Sacred Chalice	Chalice	"Quest Item: A chalice of silver with white gold tracery work detailing the sides and base.  A faint, steady humming sound can be heard coming from the cup of the chalice."
2055	Horn of Ros	Horn	"A horn from the dragon Ros, killed during the Night of Shooting Stars.  This horn enables its owner to more accurately sense the wounds of his opponent."
2056	Diamond	Gem	A diamond.
2057	Moonstone	Gem	A moonstone.
2058	Topaz	Gem	A sculpted piece of amber.
2059	Ruby	Gem	"A ruby with a simple, efficient cut."
2060	Amethyst	Gem	An amethyst.
2061	Emerald	Gem	An emerald.
2062	Purple Topaz	Gem	A purple topaz
2063	Sunstone	Gem	A finely cut sunstone.
2064	Emerald	Gem	A pale emerald.
2065	Sapphire	Gem	A large Sapphire.
2066	The Third Eye	Gem	"Quest Item:  A large, flawless, purple gem on a golden base."
2067	Deck of Fate	Deck of Fate	"A pack of cold, heavy Tarot cards.  To use,  pick the cards up and right-click over a character's portrait."
2068	Ankh	Ankh	"Quest Item: A symbolic item given by priests of Baa to signify the faithful, this ankh is inscribed with the name 'Gerrard Blackames.'"
2069	Candelabra	Candelabra	Quest Item: A silver candelabra etched with symbols of Baa.
2070	Tiger Statuette	Tiger Statuette	"Quest Item: A tiger statuette.  Though highly stylized, there is something remarkably lifelike about it."
2071	Bear Statuette	Bear Statuette	"Quest Item: A bear statuette.  Though highly stylized, there is something remarkably lifelike about it."
2072	Wolf Statuette	Wolf Statuette	"Quest Item: A wolf statuette.  Though highly stylized, there is something remarkably lifelike about it."
2073	Eagle Statuette	Eagle Statuette	"Quest Item: An eagle statuette.  Though highly stylized, there is something remarkably lifelike about it."
2074	Dragon Statuette	Dragon Statuette	"Quest Item: A dragon statuette.  Though highly stylized, there is something remarkably lifelike about it."
2075	Dragon Claw	Dragon Claw	Quest Item: A claw from Longfang Witherhide's forepaw.
2076	Control Cube	Control Cube	"Quest Item: A perfectly smooth, metallic cube."
2077	Crystal of Terrax	Crystal	Quest Item: This stone looks like it was cut or chipped off a much larger crystal.  A faint light glimmers at the heart of the crystal.
2078	Pearl of Putrescence	Black Pearl	Quest Item:  This large black pearl radiates an unholy aura.  
2079	Pearl of Purity	White Pearl	"Quest Item: This large white pearl is perfectly round and smooth, and always seems cool to the touch."
2080	Rose	Rose	"The top of a perfect, long stemmed rose.  It seems curiously fresh, as though plucked moments ago."
2081	Tanir's Bell	Bell	Quest Item:  The tone given by this small silver bell seemswrong.  It should be much higher than it is.
2082	Temple Gong	Gong	"A small gong, used during temple services."
2083	Magic Horseshoe	Horseshoe	"This flawless horseshoe is made of silver.  To use,  pick the horseshoe up and right-click over a character's portrait."
2084	Ethric's Skull	Skull	"Quest Item: Ethric's skull tingles almost imperceptibly to the touch, evidence of the powerful magics that have bound his body so long after his death."
2085	Bone	Bone	A thighbone from a human or humanoid monster.
2086	Crystal Skull	Crystal Skull	"A single piece of bluish crystal, carved into the shape of a human skull."
2087	Shovel	Shovel	A shovel.
2088	Lock Pick	Lock Pick	A simple lock pick.
2089	Rope	Rope	Coiled rope of sturdy quality.
2090	Lodestone	Lodestone	A souvenir from the Circus of the Sun.  This Lodestone is worth one point at the Main Circus Tent.
2091	Harpy Feather	Harpy Feather	A souvenir from the Circus of the Sun.  This Harpy Feather is worth three points at the Main Circus Tent.
2092	Golden Pyramid	Pyramid	A prize from the Circus of the Sun.  The emblem of the Circus and the word 'Abdul' are faintly etched on the bottom of the pyramid.
2093	Keg of Wine	Keg	A prize from the Circus of the Sun.  The emblem of the Circus and the word 'Abdul' are faintly etched on the bottom of the keg.
2094	Cobra Egg	Egg	The heavy egg of a large bird or reptileor monster.
2095	Chime of Harmony	Chime	Quest Item:  A set of wind chimes made of brass with copper chains.  Etched along the surface of the chimes are symbols of Baa.
2096	Tooth	Tooth	A large canine tooth from the mouth of some huge beast.
2097	Four Leaf Clover	Four Leaf Clover	A souvenir from the Circus of the Sun.  This Four Leaf Clover is worth five points at the Main Circus Tent.
2098	Flute	Flute	A simple wood flute rimmed with silver.
2099	Harp	Harp	Quest Item: A beautifully carved wooden harp.
2100	Jeweled Egg	Jeweled Egg	"A bejeweled 'egg'.  Though it surely has something valuable and fascinating inside, you can't figure out how to open it up to look."
2101	Spider Queen's Heart	Heart	Quest Item: A bloody trophy of the wicked Spider Queen.
2102	Amber	Amber	"A piece of amber, long hardened and fossilized.  The exterior is encrusted with some brownish mineral.  "
2103	Magic Lamp	Magic lamp	An oil lamp of the kind genies from the fables come out of.
2104	Apple	Apple	"A perfect, shiny red apple."
2105	Cloak of Baa	Cloak	Quest Item: This cloak is coal black with a red logo embroidered in the back.  The logo is of a ball pierced by a sword.  An ominous symbol
2106	Dragon Tower Keys	Key ring	Quest Item: A set of keys to the various Dragon Towers in the towns of Enroth.
2107	Key to Gharik's Laboratory	Key	Quest Item: A small key.
2108	Key to Snergle's Chambers	Key	Quest Item: A small key.
2109	Key to Goblinwatch	Key	Quest Item: A small key.
2110	Key	Key	A small key.
2111	Key	Key	A small key.
2112	High Sorcerer's Key	Key	A small key.
2113	Map	Map	A map made from stretched hides and vellum.
2114	Map	Map	A map made from stretched hides and vellum.
2115	Map	Map	A map made from stretched hides and vellum.
2116	Map	Map	A map made from stretched hides and vellum.
2117	Map	Map	A map made from stretched hides and vellum.
2118	Snergle's Axe	Axe	"Quest Item:  The finest Dwarven axe ever created in Enroth, Snergle's name is traced in flowing dwarven runes across the blade."
2119	Lord Kilburn's Shield	Large Shield	Quest Item:  This battered shield still bears Kilburn's name etched near the bottom.
2120	Name of Message	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2121	Name of Message	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2122	Letter from Zenofex	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2123	Enemies List	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2124	Orders from the Shadow Guild	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2125	The Letter	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2126	Devil Plans	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2127	Missive from the Archbishop	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2128	Discharge Papers	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2129	Letter from Zenofex	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2130	Letter from Cedric Druthers	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2131	Scrap of Paper	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2132	Letter to Snergle	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2133	Letter from the Prince of Thieves	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2134	Name of Message	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2135	Elegant Letter	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2136	Letter to the Prince of Thieves	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2137	Name of Message	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2138	Diary Page	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2139	Page from Agar's Journal	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2140	Remains of a Journal	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2141	Letter from the Dragon Riders	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2142	Letter from the Temple of Baa	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2143	Magical Ritual Notes	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2144	Name of Message	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2145	Orders from Snergle	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2146	Name of Message	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2147	Page from Corlagon's Diary	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2148	Letter to Marcus	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2149	Scrap from Gharik's Journal	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2150	Remnants of a Letter	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2151	Letter to Terrax	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2152	Loose Page	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2153	Journal Fragment	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2154	Letter to Agar	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2155	Letter to Gharik	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2156	Spiral Instructions	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2157	Captain's Code	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2158	First Mate's Code	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2159	Navigator's Code	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2160	Communication Officer's Code	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2161	Engineer's Code	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2162	Doctor's Code	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2163	Goblinwatch Code	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2164	Ritual of the Void	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2165	Roland's Journal	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2166	Proclamation	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2167	Name of Message	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2168	Name of Message	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2169	Name of Message	Message Scroll	"A message scroll.  To read this message, pick the scroll up and left-click over the character picture in the inventory screen."
2170	Memory Crystal Alpha	Memory Crystal	Quest Item: Memory Crystal Alpha
2171	Memory Crystal Beta	Memory Crystal	Quest Item: Memory Crystal Beta
2172	Memory Crystal Delta	Memory Crystal	Quest Item: Memory Crystal Delta
2173	Memory Crystal Epsilon	Memory Crystal	Quest Item: Memory Crystal Epsilon
2174	Pouch of Bat Guano	Leather Pouch	Quest Item: This pouch is filled with smelly bat guano.
2175	Bathhouse Key	Key	A small key.
2176	Store Room Key	Key	A small key.
2177	Treasure Room Key	Key	A small key.
2178	Secret Door Key	Key	A small key.
2179	Chest Key	Key	A small key.
2180	Guild Key	Key	A small key.
2181	Bathhouse Key	Key	A small key.
2182	Store Room Key	Key	A small key.
2183	Treasure Room Key	Key	A small key.
2184	Warlord's Key	Key	A small key.
2185	Storage Key	Key	A small key.
2186	Cell Key	Key	A small key.
2187	High Cleric's Key	Key	A small key.
2188	Treasure Room Key	Key	A small key.
2189	Teleporter Key	Key	A small key.
2190	Hive Sanctum Key	Key	A small key.
2191	Storage Key	Key	A small key.
2192	Cell Key	Key	A small key.
2193	Water Temple Key	Key	A small key.
2194	Flame Door Key	Key	A small key.
2195	Back Door Key	Key	A small key.
2196	Bibliotheca Chest Key	Key	A small key.
2197	VARN Chest Key	Key	A small key.
2198	Sewer Key	Key	A small key.
2199	Fire Amulet	Amulet	"Quest Item:  Set in gold etched with ancient runes, the ruby heart of this amulet glows faintly."
2200	Dark Containment	Spell Scroll	Quest Item:  Dark Containment