#	Text	Notes	Owner
1	"My fellow Journeyman, we face grave times.  Hopefully our Master will find a way for us to leave this troubled region and return safely to Alvar.  I would not wish to end my life here, even though it is the place of my birth."		S'ton
2	"Dadeross led us here to trade with the Lizardman Clan of Onefang for their tobersk fruit.  He has gone to talk with Brekish Onefang, the village leader.  Perhaps you should look for him?"		S'ton
3	"The Regnan Pirates are a threat to the economy and free travel in Jadame.  Very few boats ply the sea, for fear of being sunk…or worse!  When in Ravenshore, I did hear rumors of a small band of smugglers who have been working beneath the notice of the pirates.  I wonder how they do that!"		S'ton
4	"It is as I have read in the prophecy of the Unmaking! ""...and a Mountain of Fire shall rise from the sea, like a wound drawn by the quick stroke of a dagger…"".You must find a way off of these islands, if not for the caravan, at least for yourself!  Someone must take news of what has happened here to the Merchant Council in Alvar!  They must know of the cataclysm and of the Regnan raid!"		S'ton
5	"The pirates from the dread Island of Regna are using the cataclysm and the confusion created by it to aid them in overrunning the islands.  If they conquer Dagger Wound, they can use it as an outpost for direct raids on Ravenshore!  The Merchant Council in Alvar must be notified!  You must find a way to the boats and tell them!"		Dadeross
6	"It will take several boats to ferry the entire caravan back to Ravenshore, or many trips by one boat.  This cannot be done until the waters around the Dagger Wound Islands are free from Regnan Pirates.  It is best that you return to Alvar and tell the Council of the Regnan attack.  They will send help to rescue us!"		Dadeross
7	"In the middle of the night the ground shook!  Flaming rocks dropped from the sky!  Many of my people were hurt or killed!  Great damage was done to the village.  The bridges that allowed travel between the smaller islands and the main island were destroyed.  We found ourselves stuck on the main island, unable to reach those on the smaller islands who may be injured.  Many family members and friends are missing.  We cannot reach the islands with the boat docks, and thus we are unable to send to Ravenshore for help. I do not even know if any boats survived!"		Brekish Onefang
8	"In time long past, my people used the Portals of Stone to travel quickly from island to island, but we have lost the knowledge of their operation. Only the pair connecting the village to the southwestern fields still functions. Now that the bridges are gone, we're trapped on the island!"		Brekish Onefang
9	"A Cleric, by the name of Fredrick Talimere, has been living with us for the last few years.  He has been studying the Portals of Stone and the outer ruins of the Abandoned Temple.  Maybe he has the knowledge to get the Portals working again!  Find him and see if he will help!"		Brekish Onefang
10	"Ah yes…""the portals."" I have been studying them and the lost culture that built them for years.They were built by the civilization that had its day long before the Lizardmen came to inhabit these islands. They were a means of instantaneous travel between the islands. Sadly, the power stones needed to operate them are in short supply."		Brekish Onefang
11	"The first night of the mountain of fire, I went to the beach to see if I could see anything of its eruption.  I cannot be certain, but as the volcano continued to erupt, I thought I saw Earth Elementals roaming the lava encrusted base of the mountain."		Fredrick Talimere
12	"So Clanleader Onefang gave you that power stone he was holding onto! It will power the portal on the southwestern tip of the island. To use it, hold an image of the stone in your mind as you step onto the portal."		Fredrick Talimere
13	"The ruins of a temple built by the lost civilization lies on the island just northwest of the main island. I have not explored it however, for dangerous reptiles have made it their lair. I do suspect that the temple leads to an underwater tunnel which surfaces near the boat docks on the northwest island.With the bridges out, that tunnel may be the only way to reach the docks and a boat to safety!"		Fredrick Talimere
14	"My brother, Isthric the Tongue, went to check on the tobersk plants on one of the lesser islands.  He has not returned!  I am afraid that he is one of those stranded by the cataclysm. He may even be hurt!  If you were to fix the Portals of Stone, he would surely be able to return, and we could get help to those who need it!  Find him for me!"		Rohtnax
15	"My Granda used to tell us of the times past, when the Portals of Stone were the main travel route between the islands.  She told us that the keys to the Portals disappeared during one of the first raids committed by the Regnan Pirates.  If the Portals of Stone were working my brother Isthric could return back to the main island!"		Rohtnax
16	That rude man?  He's more concerned with that Abandoned Temple than he is with the life that goes on around him!  My Granda warned him that the Temple is a place of great Evil.  He never listened.  Now Granda isn't with us anymore and we have no one but Brekish Onefang to remind us of the past.		Rohtnax
17	We have offended the Ancients!  Why else would they call up the Mountain of Fire!  The Prophecies tell of a time when the oceans would boil!  This is the beginning of the end!		Pascella Tisk
18	There are many Prophecies that tell of the destruction of Jadame and the entire world!   Most tell of a time when the world will be consumed by that which created it.  Perhaps the Ancients have decided to wipe us all out!		Pascella Tisk
19	"There is one Prophecy, the Prophecy of the Snake, that I have been unable to find a copy of.  I think it may be most revealing about the future of Jadame.Fredrick Talimere, the Cleric, has told me of the snake ruins, and of the Abandoned Temple.  He is in agreement with me, that there may be a copy of this prophecy, somewhere in the temple.  Could you find it for me?"		Pascella Tisk
20	"You must find a way off of these islands. Someone must take news of what has happened here to our masters, the Merchants of Alvar!  They must know of the cataclysm and of the Regnan raid! I've written a letter to the Merchants of Alvar representative in Ravenshore, Elgar Fellmoon. In it I explain our situation here. If anyone can advise us on what to do here, it is Fellmoon. Take this to him now."	Pascella Tisk	Pascella Tisk
21	You must bring my letter to Elgar Fellmoon in Ravenshore!		Dadeross
22	Take this crystal to Fredrick Talimere. I know that it has something to do with the portals of stone. Perhaps he can tell you how it functions.		Brekish Onefang
23	Bring the portal crystal to Fredrick Talimere. He will know what it does.		Brekish Onefang
24	"The Merchant Council had sent our greatest warrior, Cauri Blackthorne, to consult with the Sun Temple priests about the disasters that have struck all of Jadame.Cauri left for the Temple of the Sun in Murmurwoods shortly after rumors of the cataclysms were heard here in Alvar.  She was to return after consulting the priests.  We are very concerned that she has not returned.As for your promotion, only Cauri can accurately test your skills and assess your worthiness for promotion.  If you find her, provide her with any assistance she may need and return here with news of her status and location."		Brekish Onefang
25	"Have you found Cauri?  We really need to know what happened to her!  Without her, we are all diminished!"		Old Dark Elf
26	"Thank you for your assistance with the Basilisk Curse.  Usually I am prepared to handle the vile lizards, but this time there were just too many of them.The Temple of the Sun asked me to check on a few pilgrims that were looking for the Druid Circle of Stone in this area.  When I found the first statue, I realized what had happened to the pilgrims.  I myself did not know of the increase in the number of Basilisks in this area.  They seem to be agitated by something.  I was going to investigate the Druid Circle of Stone when the Basilisks attacked me."		Old Dark Elf
27	"::Cauri looks over the Dark Elf(s) in your party::To rescue me, you must have researched my path, and investigated the places I had been.  This demonstrates the intelligence needed to succeed in dealing with the world and business.To get to where I was attacked, you must have the skills needed to fight the Basilisks and other threats, demonstrating your prowess as a warrior.  Skill in battle is needed when proper negotiations break down.To ask me for promotion demonstrates desire, and without desire success will always escape your grasp.You have all of the traits necessary to hold the title of Patriarch.  I will notify to Council upon my return.  It would be my pleasure to travel with you again.  You can find me in the Inn in Ravenshore."	Cauri Blackthorne	Old Dark Elf
28	"I need to investigate the Circle of Stone further for the Temple of the Sun.  Hopefully not all of the pilgrims met the fate of these. Hopefully there are survivors!Something has agitated the creatures in this area, and I think the source can be found in the Circle."	Cauri Blackthorne	Old Dark Elf
29	"You know…I have a power stone that will activate the portal to the abandoned temple. And you have one that will allow us to reach the island where that portal is!If we joined forces, we could reach the temple with ease. What say you?Fredrick Talimere offers to join your party."	Cauri Blackthorne	Old Dark Elf
30	"Cauri returned and informed us of this assistance you provided her.  She also notified us of your promotion.  Congratulations, may your profits bring you much joy!"		Old Dark Elf
31	"Cauri Blackthorne was here well over a week ago, maybe longer.  She had asked us many questions about the elemental incursions.  We provided her with what information we had here.  She said she would return to Alvar with the information.  Before she left, we asked her if she could do a favor for us.  We asked her if she could check on a group of pilgrims that were traveling to the old Druid Circle of Stone to the northeast of here.  She assured us that she would check in on them on her way back to Alvar."		Cleric of the Sun
32	"You come to me claiming to have a message from one of my caravan masters. Well, where is it then? If it was so important, perhaps you should have been better about not losing it along the way!"		Elgar Fellmoon
33	"What is this? A letter from caravan master, Dadeross? Let's see…hmmm…Well, it seems that serious events are afoot. It is a pity--what has happened on Dagger Wound. Serious action may need to be taken, but I require more information……and I think I know how to get it! Perhaps you would be interested in helping me? I will compensate you, of course. And, here. Take this as payment for delivering Dadeross' letter."		Elgar Fellmoon
34	"The local smugglers have the fastest boats in Ravenshore. If these were available to my agents, they could make quick scouting missions up and down the coast so we could see the extent of the cataclysm mentioned in Dadeross' letter.Here. Bring this letter to the smuggler leader, Arion Hunter. I'm sure it will ""persuade"" him to lend his services. You'll find his hideout westward up the coast.Oh, I almost forgot. The smugglers--they're wererats--and you know how they can be. Hunter can be reasoned with, but don't be surprised if his crew is less than civil."	Elgar Fellmoon	Elgar Fellmoon
35	"Listen. We need those boats! Deliver my letter to Arion Hunter. Did you forget? His lair is to the west, up the coast!"		Elgar Fellmoon
36	"Very good, and here is the payment we agreed upon. Hunter's boats will be useful to us through the crisis.Yes, ""crisis,"" I say! Since your initial visit, several other caravans have missed their scheduled stops. There are also the rumors. Twice I've heard of the appearance of a burning lake of fire rising out of the desert.Volcanoes! Lakes of fire! I fear the mysterious crystal has something to do with it. In any event, the guildmasters in Alvar must be informed!"		Elgar Fellmoon
37	"As you may be aware, our guild headquarters is located in the city of Alvar. If you've never been there, the easiest way to reach it is to follow the river up through the canyon to the north.Go to the guild house and find Bastian Loudrin. Tell him about the crystal, and the rumors. Lourdrin will know what to do."	Elgar Fellmoon	Elgar Fellmoon
38	You must reach Bastian Loudrin in Alvar. Go! He must be informed of recent events!		Elgar Fellmoon
39	"This is the home of Cauri Blackthorne, greatest Dark Elf warrior.  She is currently out, working for the Merchant Council of Alvar.  Perhaps you should consult them as to her whereabouts."		Old Dark Elf
40	"You did all that to my guards just to deliver a letter! Let me see that……hmmm…Fellmoon wants my boats? Never! I…what!…he threatens my Irabelle…I…I…sigh…V-very well. You can tell Fellmoon he can have my boats. I guess there's no refusing the Merchants of Alvar what they want."		Old Dark Elf
41	"My cargoes are not the kind that want inspecting by harbor officials so my boats have to be, and are, the fastest on the coast of Jadame. They can even outrun a Regnan galley! From here they run west to Ravage Roaming and east to Shadowspire."		Arion Hunter
42	"Ancient Troll legends tell of a time when we did not live here in this desolate region.  They tell of a place that was quiet and tranquil.  We were driven from this place by the Curse of the Stone.  So for many hundred years we have dwelt here upon the Sand of Iron.  Now it seems we will be forced from this place as well.  The growing sea of fire has destroyed most of my village.  Many friends and family have perished.  This may indeed be the end of my Clan.There is a saying amongst my people, ""a thing lives only as long as it is remembered.""  As long as I remember our homeland, then it will always be there for us to return too.  It just needs to be found."		Arion Hunter
43	"Perhaps if you could locate our previous homeland, and check to see if the Curse of the Stone still exists.  If it does perhaps there is a way to remove it.  Any Troll in your party who completes this task would be promoted to War Troll of our Clan. Many honors are bestowed with this title, and you would be forever known to us as a legendary hero.One of our warriors, Dartin Dunewalker, set out to find this place.  He left thinking he would find clues among the stone fields of Ravage Roaming.  Perhaps you can find him there and work together--or at the least, find clues that will lead you to our goal."	TROLL PROMO	Arion Hunter
44	"The Alliance must be completed, and a unified course of action decided upon.  Return to Alvar and consult the Merchant Council."		TROLL PROMO
45	"You have found our Ancient Home?  Its located in the western area of the Murmurwoods?  This is wonderful news.  Perhaps there is still time to move my people.  Unfortunately the Elemental threat must be dealt with first, or no people will be safe! All Trolls among you have been promoted to War Troll, and their names will be forever remembered in our songs.  I will teach the rest of you what skills I can, perhaps it will be enough to help you save all of Jadame."		TROLL PROMO
46	"You were sent to find the Ancient Troll Home?  Your assistance is welcomed!  I am at a loss; the clues I followed to this region have lead to a dead end.  No one here knows about the Curse of the Stone mentioned in our legends.  The Ogre Mage, Zog was less than helpful.  I was lucky to escape his fortress with my life. Although, he may have provided assistance with out meaning too!  When I mentioned the Curse of the Stone, he said if I bothered him further, he would be sure to cage me with his pet Basilisk!  Basilisks roam the Murmurwoods!"	TROLL PROMO	TROLL PROMO
47	Thanks again for your assistance with the Basilisk curse!  Hurry back to Alvar!  We must do what we can to save Jadame.		Cauri Blackthorne
48	"Thanks for finding our Ancient Home, once the treat to Jadame has been handled we can begin to move there!"		TROLL PROMO
49	"Have you found the Ancient Home for our Clan?  Without its location, my people will surely perish!"		TROLL PROMO
50	"Disaster in Dagger Wound, too? This is indeed disturbing. If one were to believe all the rumors, one would think that all of Jadame is in upheaval and chaos.I wish I knew more. I rely on our caravan masters for news, but all who were supposed to arrive here this month have not. What I do hear, troubles me. Hurricanes, floods, and now a volcano! The worst I've heard is that a sea of fire has appeared in the Ironsand Desert--and this from many sources.I wonder if this crystal in Ravenshore has something to do with it. Its appearance at the onset of the calamity seems to be more than a coincidence."		TROLL PROMO
51	"All of this upheaval is seriously impacting our guild's business. I need more information, but I'm being buried in gossip and rumor.Many tell me of this sea of fire in the Ironsand Desert. I've heard the tale enough that I almost believe it. Confirmation or denial of the lake's existence would be of great help to me.If you would serve me, go to the Ironsand Desert and seek this lake. If it is indeed there, find me someone who saw it appear. Bring him back here so I can hear his story myself."	Bastian Loudrin	TROLL PROMO
52	"I must know more about what is going on in the Ironsand Desert. I can't use more rumors. I have enough of those already.I need you to actually go there. The desert is several days travel to the east."	Bastian Loudrin	TROLL PROMO
53	"Well, so it is true. Imagine…a lake of fire. But where is my eyewitness? I need to speak with someone who saw its formation. This is important…for reasons I'm unwilling to discuss with you now.Find me someone who saw the birth of the lake of fire! Try searching the Troll village, Rust."	Bastian Loudrin	TROLL PROMO
54	"You must form an alliance to stand against our threatened oblivion! Seek support from the Necromancers' Guild, Temple of the Sun, Minotaurs of Ravage Roaming, Dragons of Garrote Gorge, and the Dragon hunting party of Charles Quixote in Garrote Gorge. I'm sure that you will find it impossible to get all of them to agree to work together, but still, you must make your best effort.If we are to survive in this time of prophecy, my sages tell me that at least three of the groups I mentioned must agree to work together. Go and do this thing. If you value this world and your lives, go!"	Bastian Loudrin	TROLL PROMO
55	"You have done what I feared was impossible. Though these times are fraught with uncertainties, that you have united key factions of Jadame goes a long way towards securing our continued existence.Well, I have done what I can. I leave the defense of the land to the alliance council. I hope they find the accommodations I have provided them in Ravenshore to be adequate--the guild house there is not our most luxurious. Still, I though it would be best if the council was located near the crystal.I wish them, and you, good luck!"	Bastian Loudrin	TROLL PROMO
56	"Yes, I was here when the lake of fire first appeared. A strange gateway appeared on the desert plain outside the village. The fire you see spilled forth from it. The fire spread like water poured on the ground.A wave of flames rushed over the edge of the village. Most of my people were lost instantly. What remains of this village is as you see it.I was in the hills overlooking the village when this all happened. I saw it all, but I can hardly believe it."	Bastian Loudrin	TROLL PROMO
57	"I would come with you, If it were not for my father. So deep is his mourning for my brother, Vilebite, that he cannot care for himself.My father believes that Vilebite's soul cannot rest until his remains are at rest in the village tomb. Unfortunately, Gogs infested the tomb when the lake of fire appeared.Here! Take my brother's ashes. I'm sure my father's grief will lessen if they are placed in the tomb. Do this for me and I will travel with you to Alvar."	Overdune Snapfinger	TROLL PROMO
58	I will go with you only after my brother's ashes are safely in the village tomb.		Overdune Snapfinger
59	"You have done my family a great service. With his ashes safe in the holy sanctuary of the village tomb, Vilebite can lie in peace. My father, too is greatly improved. We have talked and I believe that he can now take care of himself while I accompany you to Alvar."		Overdune Snapfinger
60	Vilebite was a good son. I will miss him. But at least I can take comfort knowing that he is at peace. Thank you for your kind and heroic deed.		OVERDUNE'S FATHER
61	My father believed that the Necromancers of Shadowspire were attempting to create an undead Dragon.  This would be a truly horrid beast. He believed is was his personal duty to stop them.		Leane Stormlance
62	"My father Blazen, left here years ago to slay the Skeletal Dragons in the Shadowspire Region. Unfortunately, he has never returned.  He took with him, Ebonest, the greatest Dragon slaying spear ever forged. Charles Quixote has never forgiven my father for taking Ebonest with him.  Unfortunately we have no idea what befell my father.  Because my father was Charles’ second in command and responsible for the loss of Ebonest, Charles is unwilling to promote me to Champion, regardless of the merit of my skills. Perhaps if you find Ebonest, Charles with promote your knights and myself to Champions!"		Leane Stormlance
63	"I was captured in the center of the Mad Necromancer’s lab.  There I was tortured and many curses were placed upon me.   Ebonest must have been taken from me when I fell, and perhaps is still in the central chamber.  If you were to recover it and return it to Quixote, at least my family name will be cleared, and my daughter can continue her life without my failure haunting her."		Blazen Stormlance
64	"Perhaps the Clerics of the Sun have a way to cure me, for they would be the only ones who would know how to counter the dark magics that afflict me. There is a friend of mine in Ravenshore named Dervish Chevron. He left the Temple of the Sun years ago to pursue his own research into the mysteries of Jadame.  Perhaps he would know of a cure, or even have it in his possession.  If he cannot help, promise you will return here and kill me so I may at last be at rest!"		Blazen Stormlance
65	"Zanthora moved here from the Shadowspire to continue experiments she began at the Necromancers' Guild.  She desired to create the ultimate horror, the Skeletal Dragon.  Her fellow Necromancers feared the end result. If the created Dragons where ever to escape Zanthora’s control, there would be no stopping them."		Blazen Stormlance
66	"Blazen Stormlance was my lieutenant and my friend.  I never understood his personal quest--this need to find these rumored Skeletal Dragons.  He took my greatest tool with him.  With Ebonest in my hand, I would have the Dragon problem well in hand.  "		Charles Quixote
67	"The Clerics of the Sun imbued this spear with their blessings, making it the strongest spear forged.  Its power is said to be able to slay any Dragon with one blow.  If this were so, I could end my conflict quickly, cleanly and efficiently."		Charles Quixote
68	"The Gem of Restoration may cure the knight, Blazen Stormlance, of what you say has befallen him.  There is no love lost between the Temple of the Sun and the Guild of Necromancers; any opponent of theirs is definitely a friend of ours.  Restore Stormlance to life so that he may rejoin Charles Quixote."		Charles Quixote
69	Have you found my father?  Or the spear Ebonest?  We must get it back to Charles Quixote!		Leane Stormlance
70	"You found Blazen Stormlance?  What about MY spear Ebonest?  You have that as well?FANTASTIC!I thank you for this and find myself in your debt!  I will promote all knights in your party to Champion and teach what skills I can to the rest of your party. "		Leane Stormlance
71	"What is this?  You ally with my mortal enemies and then seek to do me a favor?I wonder what the Dragons think of this. But so be it.  I am in your debt for returning Ebonest to me.  I will promote any Knights in your party to Champion, however they will never be accepted in my service.  The rest I will teach what I can. I do not wish to see you again!"	Charles Quixote	Leane Stormlance
72	"""An alliance to unite Jadame,"" you say. If it wasn't Lordrin who was proposing it, I would normally have slain you for my supper.While intriguing, I cannot consider the idea now. We are under daily attack by the accursed knights of Charles Quixote. If he were not a problem, I could do as Lordrin asks.Perhaps you could help me with Quixote?"	Charles Quixote	Leane Stormlance
73	"Last month one of Quixote's raiding parties invaded our caves. They slew many and took with them the egg containing my unborn heir. While those foul slayers hold the egg, we cannot attack their encampment.If you were to return the egg to me, I could destroy Quixote. Do this for me and I will join your alliance."	Deftclaw Redreaver	Leane Stormlance
74	"If you want me to join your alliance, you will have to help me against Charles Quixote. Bring me the Dragon egg he stole from me!"		Deftclaw Redreaver
75	"To attain the status of Great Wyrm, a Dragon must prove that he can handle himself against a great number of foes.  He must face down the vermin that Charles Quixote would send against us.  To the southwest of here, Quixote has established an encampment of his puny “Dragon Slayers.”  This camp is lead by Jeric Whistlebone, the second in command of Quixote’s army.  Destroy this camp!  Kill all of those who serve Quixote in that region and return to me.  Return to me with the sword of  Whistlebone the Slayer.  In doing this, you will prove to me your worthiness.  "		Deftclaw Redreaver
76	"You think I would promote a Dragon that serves those who have allied themselves with our Mortal enemy, Charles Quixote.  What arrogance!  What outrageousness!  You will have to prove yourselves to me! And in the proving you will deal a serious blow to your allies!  To the southwest of here, Quixote has established an encampment of his puny “Dragon Slayers.”  This camp is lead by Jeric Whistlebone, the second in command of Quixote’s army.  Destroy this camp!  Kill all of those who serve Quixote in that region and return to me.  Return to me with the sword of  Whistlebone the Slayer."		Deftclaw Redreaver
77	"Have you slain the “Dragon Slayers?""  Where is the sword of Whistlebone the Slayer?!?"		Deftclaw Redreaver
78	"Have you slain the “Dragon Slayers?""  Or have you decided not to redeem yourselves in my eyes?"		Deftclaw Redreaver
79	"You return to me with the sword of the Slayer, Whistlebone!  You are indeed worthy of my notice!  The Dragons in your group are promoted to Great Wyrm!  I will teach the others of your group what skills I can as a reward for their assistance!"		Deftclaw Redreaver
80	"You return to me with the sword of the Slayer, Whistlebone!  Is there no end to the treachery that you will commit? Is there no one that you owe allegiance to?  I will promote those Dragons who travel with you to Great Wyrm, however they will never fly underneath me!  There rest of your traitorous group will be instructed in those skills which can be taught to them!  Go now!  Never show your face here again, unless you want it eaten!"		Deftclaw Redreaver
81	"You have killed the Dragon Slayers, but where is the Sword of Whistlebone?  Return to me when you have it!"		Deftclaw Redreaver
82	"Hmmm…things must be serious if trader Loudrin is involving himself in matters other than his own fortunes...and I must say that there is a taint of doom in the air.If only for continued good business between my operation and his, I would normally entertain this notion of Loudrin's. Unfortunately, matters here are tying up all of my resources. I have none to spare for support of this alliance you speak of.Say, perhaps we can help each other? If you were to take care of a little matter for me, I could consider honoring your request."		Deftclaw Redreaver
83	"One of my customers, an Ogre that goes by the charming moniker of ""Zog the Jackal,"" has seriously betrayed my trust. I gave him an item of great value on promise of future payment. This rather large payment never arrived. I sent a messenger to demand return of the item--a Dragon's egg of great potential. This messenger was slain!Needless to say, this matter concerns me greatly. I have allotted both money and men for the purpose of revenge. If, however, you were to recover the egg for me from Zog's fortress in Ravage Roaming, I would be glad to pledge service to your alliance."	Charles Quixote	Deftclaw Redreaver
84	"Have you recovered the Dragon egg from Zog's Ravage Roaming fortress? Oh, never mind. I can see from your abashed expression that you have not.I stand firm on our deal. Bring me that egg, or I'll have nothing to do with your alliance!"	Charles Quixote	Deftclaw Redreaver
85	You have found Blazen Stormlance? But where is Ebonest?  Return to me when you have the spear and you will be promoted!		Charles Quixote
86	"That cursed knight, Charles Quixote is assembling his best Dragon Slayers at an encampment to the southwest of here.  He must be planning another assault upon the Dragon Caves!"		Deftclaw Redreaver
87	"You would like my herd to join into an alliance? How could I refuse you? Not only have you saved us from certain death, we have suffered directly from the cataclysm the alliance is being created to fight!You have my pledge. With the greatest haste I myself will travel to Ravenshore to take a seat on the alliance council."		Deftclaw Redreaver
88	"It was the worst of horrors! I was on guard in the main labyrinth just north of here when the waters came. A great wave as high as my head flooded through the passages. I managed to reach this high chamber. I waited for others, but there were none. I fear that many of the herd are dead or trapped inside the lair."		MINOTAUR CLUE GUY
89	"Balthazar Lair has many levels. There are other chambers as high as this one., so there may be others who have survived.I have thought long on this. Though many of the tunnels are flooded, it may be possible to drain them using the doors and air vents as valves. In fact, the whole lair could be drained through the lower level escape tunnel. Help my herd! You would have our eternal gratitude."		MINOTAUR CLUE GUY
90	"I just feel it. There are still survivors of my herd trapped in the lair. If you can figure out how to drain the water from flooded passages, you may be able to reach them. Help them, I beg of you!"		MINOTAUR CLUE GUY
91	"Balthazar, the greatest leader in the history of our herd, led our warriors in a mighty battle against the Dark Dwarf vermin that erupt from the earth and spread like a plague. It was not a battle that went well for us. Though Balthazar and some warriors escaped, many were lost along with Balthazar's Axe--his regalia of office, and a powerful artifact as well."		Tessalar
92	"Only Masul, our herd leader, can deem an individual worthy of the title of Minotaur Lord.  One way to prove your worth, would be to recover his father’s axe, the Axe of Balthazar from the bowels of the Mines of the Dark Dwarfs.  Set your feet upon the path of this quest, and great is you future!  But we must be sure that the axe you find is indeed the Axe of Balthazar.  Take the Axe to Dadeross, a Minotaur in the service of the Merchants of Alvar, on the island of Dagger Wound.  He will be able to verify the truth of what you find."		Tessalar
93	"These little vermin work with or for the Elements of the Earth.  No one can tell which.  They burrow up from the earth in search of wealth, food, and slaves.  Nothing is left behind where these scavengers have been."		Tessalar
94	"You have found the Axe of Balthazar!  Have you presented it to Dadeross?  Without his authentication, we can not proceed with the Rite’s of Purity!  Find him and return to us once you have presented him with the axe!"		Tessalar
95	"You have found the Axe of Balthazar!  Have you presented it to Dadeross? Ah, you have authentication from Dadeross!  The Rite’s of Purity will begin immediately! You proven yourselves worthy, and our now members of our herd!  The Minotaurs who travel with you are promoted to Minotaur Lord.  The others in your group will be taught what skills we have that maybe useful to them."		Tessalar
96	"It was my pleasure to serve under Lord Balthazar, he was the finest herd leader in my tribe’s history.  Unfortunately, my services were pledged to the Merchants of Alvar, or I may have been in the battle where Balthazar fell.  Perhaps my ability and my axe could have saved my lord.  We’ll never know now."		Dadeross
97	"Of course I would know Balthazar's Axe if I saw it!  Do you have it with you? This IS the axe!  You must take this back to Tessalar, so the Rite’s of Purity may be performed upon the axe, so it be made ready for the son of Balthazar, Masul.  Take this letter with you, it carries my personal seal, and statement that this is indeed the Axe of Balthazar!"		Dadeross
98	"Where is Balthazar's Axe?  You waste my time!  Find the axe, find Dadeross and return to me!"		Tessalar
99	"Thank you for returning the Axe of Balthazar to us!  When we complete the Rites of Purity, we will present the axe to Masul. It will then be known as the Axe of Masul and surely Masul will be a wise and just herd leader."		Tessalar
100	"Of course I would know Balthazar's Axe if I saw it!  Do you have it with you?  If you find it, return to me so that I may certify that it is indeed the axe of my late lord, Balthazar."		Dadeross
101	You have found Balthazar's Axe and I have authenticated it!  Hurry back to Tessalar so that the Rites of Purity may begin!		Dadeross
102	"Ah, you returned Balthazar's Axe with my certificate to Tessalar!  The Rites of Purity have begun.  Soon Lord Masul will wield his father's axe as his own!  Greatness will return to my herd!"		Dadeross
103	"Of the many Prophecies of Jadame, the only ones that I have not be studied are the Prophecies of the Sun.  This temple was established by Tesius Dawnglow, who traveled here from Erathia many years ago to find these Prophecies.  Unfortunately, they were not found.  It is our hope that these Prophecies hold the solution to the events that are destroying Jadame."		Verish
104	"I know that the Prophecies can be found in the Lair of the Feathered Serpent.  However, I have no idea what that means, thus the clue is no help to me. "		Verish
105	"You seek promotion for the clerics of our faith who travel with you.?  I can promote you, but I do not place much trust or faith in strangers these days.  If you were to do something for me, such as finding the lost Prophecies of the Sun, and returning them to me, then I would be agreeable to promoting you."		Verish
106	Have you found this Lair of the Feathered Serpent and the Prophecies of the Sun?  Do not waste my time!  The world is ending and you waste time with useless conversation!  Return to me when you have found the Prophecies and have taken them to the Temple of the Sun.		Verish
107	You have found the lost Prophecies of the Sun?  May the Light forever shine upon you and may the Prophet guide your steps.  With these we may be able to find the answer to what has befallen Jadame! 		Verish
108	"You return. True to your word, you have located the Prophecies of the Sun and taken them to my brothers in the Temple of the Sun.  you are truly worthy, and with the Sun’s blessing I will promote the clerics who travel with you.  After, I will teach the rest of your group what skills I can as their reward."		Verish
109	"Korbu was the most powerful of the Vampire race.  Over one hundred years ago, he sought something that our kind cannot accept.  Absolution.  Somehow, Korbu began to experience guilt over the need to feed.  Or perhaps over the act of feeding itself.  He could no longer bear the thought of killing in order to survive.  Many of our elders argued with him.  He decided to find a place where he could ponder his existence.  Thus the Crypt of Korbu was constructed with slave labor in the Ravage Roaming region.   Korbu has not been heard from since he left.  "		Lathean
110	"In this time of chaos, we need the minds of all our elders.  Return to us with Korbu, or his remains, if he has perished.  If he has indeed perished, you must return his Sarcophagus with him.  We will attempt to reanimate him so that we may consult his wisdom."		Lathean
111	"You return to us with the remains of Korbu, but where is his Sarcophagus? We cannot complete the act of reanimation without it!  Return to us when you have both the remains and the Sarcophagus!"		Lathean
112	"You return to us with the Sarcophagus of Korbu, but where are his remains? We cannot complete the act of reanimation without them!  Return to us when you have both the Sarcophagus and his remains!"		Lathean
113	"Ah, you seek to achieve the ultimate in the darker arts.  The necromancer’s among you seek to turn themselves into Liches, the most potent of necromancers.  Very well, I can perform this transformation for you, but you must do something for me...and get something for yourselves.  I require the Lost Book of Khel.  It contains secrets of necromancy that had been hidden since Khel’s tower sank beneath the waves.  The Lizardmen of Dagger Wound celebrated when the sea took Khel and his knowledge from us.  With the volcanic upheaval in that region, I believe the Tower of Khel can be found.  Retrieve the book from the library and bring it to me!  Now, for yourselves, you will need a Lich Jar for every necromancer that wishes to become a Lich.  Zanthora, the Mad Necromancer keeps a large supply of these jars, perhaps she will sell you one!  If not you must take them from her!"		Vetrinus Taleshire
114	"You have the Lost Book of Khel, however you lack the Lich Jars needed to complete the transformation!  Return here when you have one for each necromancer in your party!"		Vetrinus Taleshire
115	"You do not have the Lost Book of Khel!  I cannot help you, if you do not help me!  Return here with the Book and a Lich Jar for each necromancer in your party that wishes to become a Lich!"		Vetrinus Taleshire
116	"You have brought everything needed to perform the transformation!  So be it!  All necromancer’s in your party will be transformed into Liches!  May the dark energies flow through them for all eternity!  The rest of you will gain what knowledge I can teach them as reward for their assistance!  Lets begin!After we have completed, good friend Lathean can handle any future promotions for your party."		Vetrinus Taleshire
117	"You have brought us the Sarcophagus of Korbu and his sacred remains.  We will attempt to reanimate Korbu and seek his wisdom in these troubled times!  The vampires among you will be transformed into Nosferatu, and the others will be taught what skills we can teach them as reward for your service."		Lathean
118	"Lair of the Feathered Serpent?  That could possibly refer to the poisonous couatl, but they have not been seen for centuries."		Cleric Promo Clue
119	The Prophecies of the Sun have never been found.  They may not event exist. The Prophecies were written by our greatest prophet.  If they are found it is our hope they will be returned to us!		Cleric Promo Clue
120	Thank you for finding the Prophecies of the Sun.  May the Sun always light you way and provide you with protection!		Verish
121	"You returned Korbu to us, and we will always be in your debt!  Now leave me, so that I may consult the elders!"		Lathean
122	You must be a member of this guild to study here.		
123	Not in your condition!		
124	You're already a member of this guild.		
125	You don't have enough gold!		
126	You must first be an expert in this skill before you can become a master!		
127	You must first be a master in this skill before you can become a grandmaster!		
128	"You don't meet the requirements, and cannot be taught until you do."		
129	You are already an expert in this skill.		
130	You are already a master in this skill.		
131	You are already a grandmaster in this skill.		
132	You must know the skill before you can become an expert in it!		
133	This month's bounty is on a %s.  Kill it and return before the end of the month to collect the %lu gold reward.		Monster hunt 1
134	Congratulations on defeating the %s!  Here is the %lu gold reward.  Come back next month for a new bounty.		Monster hunt 2
135	Someone has already claimed the bounty this month.  Come back next month for a new bounty.		Monster hunt 3
136	"Games are played with the house Arcomage deck. We will supply the opponent.  Victory conditions vary per inn. Build your tower, destroy your opponent's tower, or collect enough resources before your opponent does. Large yellow numbers in column are the generators. This is how many new units of a particular resource you will receive on your next turn. Small black numbers in column are the resources. This is how many units you have available to spend on your current turn.Cards: Each have their own cost to play, indicated in a small circle in the lower right corner of the card. The cost will be deducted from your resources according to the color of the card.  Left click on a card plays the card. Right click on a card to discard without playing.Red represents your Quarry Generator which produces your Brick resources, blue represents your Magic Generator which produces Gem resources, green represents your Zoo generator which produces Beast resources. "		Monster hunt 3
137	"All Arcomage games here start with each player having a Tower of 15, Wall of 5.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 30, one of the resources to 100, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 1	
138	"All Arcomage games here start with each player having a Tower of 20 and a Wall of 5.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 50, one of the resources to 150, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 2	
139	"All Arcomage games here start with each player having a Tower of 20 and a Wall of 5.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 50, one of the resources to 150, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 3	
140	"All Arcomage games here start with each player having a Tower of 25 and a Wall of 10.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 75, one of the resources to 200, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 4	
141	"All Arcomage games here start with each player having a Tower of 25 and a Wall of 10.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 75, one of the resources to 200, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 5	
142	"All Arcomage games here start with each player having a Tower of 30 and a Wall of 15.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 100, one of the resources to 300, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 6	
143	"All Arcomage games here start with each player having a Tower of 30 and a Wall of 15.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 100, one of the resources to 300, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 7	
144	"All Arcomage games here start with each player having a Tower of 20 and a Wall of 10.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 150, one of the resources to 400, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 8	
145	"All Arcomage games here start with each player having a Tower of 20 and a Wall of 10.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 200, one of the resources to 500, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 9	
146	"All Arcomage games here start with each player having a Tower of 20 and a Wall of 50.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 100, one of the resources to 300, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 10	
147	"All Arcomage games here start with each player having a Tower of 10 and a Wall of 20.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 125, one of the resources to 350, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 11	
148	"All Arcomage games here start with each player having a Tower of 10 and a Wall of 20.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 125, one of the resources to 350, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 12	
149	"All Arcomage games here start with each player having a Tower of 50 and a Wall of 50.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 100, one of the resources to 300, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 13	
150	The Lost Book of Khel will advance my skills in the dark arts beyond that of even Sandro!  I am forever in your debt!		Vetrinus Taleshire
151	We need to consult Korbu!  You have agreed to bring us his remains and his Sarcophagus!  Do not bother us until you have these items!		
152	"Korbu?  He was the greatest of our kind, and yet he always seemed troubled.  There are some of us that remember the times before he left. He always seemed disturbed to me."		
153	"Korbu left us after making the ""Arrangement"" with the necromancers here in Shadowspire.  We aid them in any research they are working on, and assist with the defense of their guild.  In return we are allowed to feed on the local population without hindrance."		
154	"The Guild of Necromancers is very stingy when it comes to parting with Lich Jars.  You may be better off seeking out Zanthora, and obtaining one from her."		
155	the Lost Book of Khel is rumored to hold the secrets to the ultimate powers of the dark art of necromancy.  It may be good that no one knows where it is!		
156	"Bastian Loudrin has been a great friend to the guild. Sadly, I must refuse his request at this time. Even as we speak, my guild is embroiled in a battle for its very survival. For you see, the Temple of the Sun has declared a holy war on us. Most of our members are away in the fields either leading armies or raising zombies to serve in them.I wish I could say otherwise, but the accursed temple holds the upper hand. If only the balance would tilt in our favor."		
157	"If we had the Nightshade Brazier back in our possession, Shadowspire's defense would not be an issue. We could bring this war to the doors of the Sun Temple. We would annihilate them!Knowing its importance, the clerics keep the brazier in a secure chamber deep within their temple. Dyson Leland believes he can gain access to that chamber. Bring him to the temple, recover the brazier and return it to me. You want me in your alliance? Well, do this for me, and I will be in your debt.If you have any questions about the Nightshade Brazier ask Thant. It was he who created the thing."	Sandro	
158	I will not join you until the security of the guild is secure. Bring me the Nightshade Brazier from the Temple of the Sun in Murmurwoods. We will talk again of alliance after that is done.		Sandro
159	"Early on our conflict, the Sun Temple attempted to infiltrate our ranks with a spy. Such foolishness--thinking they could so easily deceive a host of dark magicians!It was child's play to unmask their agent--one ""Dyson Leland."" Since then we have turned him against his former masters, or so it would seem. Frankly, I don't entirely trust in his loyalty. Still, he has proven useful. As long as he does, we will continue to let him live."		Sandro
160	"How can anyone's quest for power bring him to participate in the horrors of the Dark Path? And yet, here is a whole house of them! Oh, they will call themselves ""seekers of knowledge,"" but these magicians of death are abomination! Loathsome corruption incarnate!Only through my own fear can the foul Necromancers' Guild call itself ""my master."""	Sandro	Sandro
161	"When I was young, all I wanted to do was to join the Order of Light--to be a selfless servant of the good. As soon as I was of age, I entered the Temple of the Sun with a heart filled with the fire of purity.What a fool I was. If there is goodness in the world, I have not seen it. There is certainly none in the halls of the Sun Temple! Hiding behind the righteousness of sanctity, Order members perform the worst crimes of greed and self-indulgence. If it were not so horrid, it would pass for something like irony."	Dyson Leland	Sandro
162	"A few months ago, I was called to a private audience with the Sun Temple head priest, Oskar Tyre. He sent me out on a mission of infiltration against the Necromancers' Guild. ""Become as they are,"" he said. ""Gain their trust. While you bide your time waiting to deliver a killing blow, feed us their secrets.""A too simple plan from too simple a leader! Oh, I did as he said, bathing myself in evil so I might seem evil. But it was as if the guild could see into my heart. I was unmasked as a spy. Under threat of death, I now follow their orders. "	Dyson Leland	Sandro
163	"Join with you? An interesting idea. But what can you offer me? After all I have been through I find myself consumed with a thirst for revenge. I would go with you, but am unwilling to spend my efforts lightly. Give me an opportunity to hurt one of my enemies--the cursed Temple of the Sun or the abominable Necromancers' Guild--and I will travel with you gladly."		Dyson Leland
164	Now that the Nightshade Brazier covers Shadowspire in its fortifying darkness. Thant goes to lead his minions.		Sandro
165	"Certainly the elemental unrest concerns us greatly. Why one need travel only a short distance north from our temple to see a great maelstrom of unnatural duration and fury. But sadly we have other matters pressing.The sick horror that is the Necromancers' Guild must be blighted from this land! We wage holy war on the evil in Shadowspire. Our entire spirit and power goes into the campaign we wage against Sandro and his minions. Until that is done we cannot entertain participation in your alliance."		Sandro
166	"Then again, we could spare some resources for your alliance if the war would turn in our favor. Perhaps you could be our agent of fortune?Inside the Necromancers' Guild is a device known as the ""Skeleton Transformer."" It converts living creatures into the skeletons which the dark mages use for the bulk of their reinforcements. If it were destroyed, we would quickly have the upper hand.We have an agent, Dyson Leland, placed in their guild. Find him and help him to wreck their skeleton making device. Do this and I will consider your request more favorably."	Oskar Tyre	Sandro
167	"You come here again with talk of alliance? I have told you what you must do. Go to the Necromancers' Guild in Shadowspire, find Dyson Leland and help him to destroy their Skeleton Transformer!"		Oskar Tyre
168	"Excellent work! With the Skeleton Transformer destroyed, I am more than confident that the light of righteousness will cleanse Shadowspire of evil. The Necromancers' Guild is as good as no more.As I agreed, you may now consider the Temple of the Sun an ally against the elemental cataclysm. I myself will sit on your alliance council in Ravenshore. I will make my departure arrangements with all due haste."		Oskar Tyre
169	"Do you take the prophecy so lightly that you shirk the role it has cast for you? These are dire times calling for dire actions from all. Go forth across the land and forge the unity represented by the alliance. Go, unless you favor the oblivion that threatens us!"		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
170	Using Arion Hunter's boats we have managed to gather some information. I sent one to Ravage Roaming and another to the Dagger Wound Islands. It is reported that strange portal gateways have appeared in both regions. The gateway in the islands stands on the slopes of the large volcano that rose from the sea southeast of the main island. The Ravage Roaming portal is in the middle of the large lake. It is said that the water which formed the lake flooded out of the gateway.		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
171	"Within hours of our first meeting, a most fortuitous development occurred. We were contacted by a great sage, Xanthor, of the Ironfist courts of Enroth!Using his great magic, he projected his image into this very chamber. He and Roland and Catherine Ironfist were at sea off our shores when the cataclysm occurred. They survived the resulting storms and now would like to land in Ravenshore to aid the alliance. Unfortunately, they are blocked by the Regnan pirate fleet. We must help them to land. Xanthor claims much knowledge of what has happened here. We need his council!"		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
172	"Our sources believe the main Regnan fleet is in a hidden port somewhere on Regna Island. If you could sink the fleet in dock you could greatly cripple their ability to patrol the seas off our shore. Unfortunately, we don't have a fleet of our own strong enough to make a landing on Regna.Brekish Onefang has gotten message to us that the Regnans have built an outpost on an atoll off the main Dagger Wound Island. He believes this outpost is resupplied by mysterious means. His scouts never see ships land there, but they are always well stocked. Perhaps you should go there and solve the mystery. Perhaps the answer will convey you to Regna?Regardless of the means, the Regnan fleet must be sunk if the Ironfists are to land in Ravenshore."	Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53	Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
173	"Your good work sinking the Regnan fleet has already had the desired results. Just yesterday morning, Catherine and Roland Ironfist arrived along with their sage, Xanthor. With them in the alliance, we are made stronger--immeasurably so.I will admit that the time of this crisis has contained some of my darkest moments. Thanks to your efforts I believe that the worst of this is over. I have hopes that we will indeed survive this."	Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53	Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
174	You must sink that Regnan fleet! It is imperative that the Ironfists be allowed to land safely. Their sage Xanthor has knowledge of the crisis that we cannot do without.		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
175	"For all their claims of empire and their airs of civilization, the Regnans are the worst scum of Jadame. Why I cannot find myself the least bit surprised that they would take advantage of the crisis to expand their pirating operations. What concerns me most is their new outpost on Dagger Wound. I am sure they mean to use it as a base of attack on the continent. Why, it even puts them in striking distance of Ravenshore!"		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
176	"I have only met with him briefly, but I am convinced that Xanthor is remarkably knowledgeable about the workings of the elemental planes. Apparently he learned much from the Ironfists' elemental allies during their recent campaigns against the devils of Erathia.Even now he studies the strange crystal in the town square. You may find him there, or perhaps in the nearby residence we have provided him."		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
177	"We of the council have great faith in this Xanthor. He has told me that he is formulating a plan for dealing with the elemental crisis. If anyone can find a solution to our problems, it is he.If you would help us further, be of service to this great sage. Consult with him about the crystal and see what you might do for him."	Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53	Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
178	We look to Xanthor to formulate our next actions. Go to him and see how you can help.		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
179	"That we have been joined by the royal court of Enroth has been nothing but good. I was worried they would be afflicted with the need for pomp which infects many other monarchs. I am gladdened to report that this is not the case with this king and queen. They disembarked and set directly to work on our problem. As key members of our alliance, you will find access to them easy. We have put them up in houses here in Ravenshore."		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
180	"From what Xanthor has told us, I'm sure all of the elemental planes are dangerous. Still, I would advise you to take particular caution when exploring the Plane of Fire. Its denizens, according to reports from the Ironsand Desert, are being particularly belligerent."		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
181	"All I know of the Plane Between Planes is what I learned from the Alvarian loremasters. Still, if the Destroyer's base is there, proceed with the greatest caution! It is said the plane is made of the stuff of chaos from which all the other planes are formed as if from clay. While chaos has a form, it is fluid. Whatever you see there will not be as it seems. And what is there may be subject to continuous change."		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
182	"What the Alvar loremasters told me of the Plane Between Planes applies here. While I am sure the prisons of the elemental lords are prisons in every sense of the word, I am equally sure that they will not appear as one would expect."		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
183	"The Merchant Guild of Alvar owes you a great debt. As a small measure of repayment, we have decided to make this merchanthouse permanently available to you. Please take this gift from us as a token of our profound gratitude for your valorous deeds."		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
184	"I know being part of your alliance is important work. Still, I do miss the hunt! I keep imagining all the good fun my men are having while I'm here pushing around papers.Hurry up with this alliance business! I want to get this mess taken care of with dispatch! Without the thrill of the hunt, my life is missing its usual spark."		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53
185	"Judging from the tactics employed by the Regnan pirates, I suspect that Blackwell Cooper is involved. Cooper is an old…shall we say, ""associate,"" of mine. Why, if I were a gambling man, I'd bet gold that he is leading the Regnan expeditionary force on Dagger Wound."		Charles Quixote NPC 65
186	"I know I hold the council's minority opinion on the subject, but really, I don't see why we have to involve some charlatan magician in this matter! Surely this crisis is solvable, like most things, with judicious application of a length of well-forged steel."		Charles Quixote NPC 65
187	"Fah! If you ask me, this idea of Xanthor's is foolhardy! I say if we're facing attack by elemental armies, we should be raising an army to meet them. Frankly, all this talk of prophecy leaves me uneasy. This council is too much under the sway of the Ironfist's pet wizard. I say we take the fight to the elemental planes and introduce the invaders to the sharp edges of our blades!"		Charles Quixote NPC 65
188	"I tell you, this Xanthor is sending you on a wild goose chase. ""Plane Between Planes,"" indeed! What hogwash! The worst of it is that we make no preparations for war in the event the crazy scheme fails, which I expect it will. This mad following of prophecy flies in the face of good military sense!"		Charles Quixote NPC 65
189	"I have had more of my share of doubts about this Xanthor, but it is the mark of a man how readily he admits his errors. It is clear to me now that he has given nothing but good and effective advise. If he tells you to rescue the elemental lords, then that is what you must do. Go! And good luck!"		Charles Quixote NPC 65
190	"Good to see you again, Heroes of Jadame. A good job there, saving the world, and all. You certainly have my thanks, and I'm sure, the thanks of many.I'm sure you've got plenty of other opportunities at this point, but let me know if you want a job hunting Dragons. Probably not much of a challenge for the likes of you, but the offer stands!"		Charles Quixote NPC 65
191	"Small ones, hurry with your alliance preparations! My patience with this land lacking in caves and prey grows dangerously thin. Not only must I sleep in a barn, these people do not even raise cattle. I must live off of fish! Fah!If you value my good temper, be quick!"	Charles Quixote NPC 65	Charles Quixote NPC 65
192	Reaching Regna Island is no small challenge. One of my scouts has reported to me that Regnan boats lie thick on the sea. He also said he saw that the Regnans have a craft that can travel beneath the water. It is said they supply their Dagger Wound outpost with the craft. Perhaps you can use it to reach Regna. The pirates will either miss your passage or take you for one of their own.		Deftclaw Redreaver NPC 66
193	"I know this is not the time to think of revenge, but I would pass onto you something I learned about my enemy, Charles Quixote. The Minotaur king, Masul, mentioned that Quixote keeps a sword of great power with him in his keep. It is called, ""Snake."" Perhaps your acquiring of it would help the alliance cause?"		Deftclaw Redreaver NPC 66
194	"My Dragon patrols have located two of the elemental gateways. One lies on the side of a large volcano southeast of the largest Dagger Wound Islands. The other is located in the center of the large lake in Ravage Roaming. I know not where they lead, but you will have to cross a lot of water to reach either."		Deftclaw Redreaver NPC 66
195	"An Erathian Dragon visited my cave shortly before you arrived there. He reported to me that a new type of Dragon, one seemingly made of crystalline rock, has been seen in Erathia. I'm not sure why I tell you this. Perhaps the giant crystal in the town square reminds me of the story. "		Deftclaw Redreaver NPC 66
196	Interesting that the Destroyer himself sends you to undo his works. I guess I am not surprised. The workings of the greater Powers are mysterious at best.		Deftclaw Redreaver NPC 66
197	"You have done this land and Dragonkind a great service. For this, we owe you. Know that we will tolerate your presence in our caves, further, we will not hunt you as prey."		Deftclaw Redreaver NPC 66
198	"Did you know that our temple in Murmurwoods is the first in this land of Jadame? It is our mission to bring the Light to all corners of the world--even here. We were surprised to see that our enemies, the Necromancers' Guild had preceded our arrival with their own. But no matter, they will soon be dealt with.Say, don't you think this merchant house would make a fine Sun Temple? I will bring it up with Fellmoon after the crisis is over."		Deftclaw Redreaver NPC 66
199	"If you're off to Regna, you might want to look for the Mace of the Sun. When my brothers and I made the crossing from Erathia, we were attacked by the Regnan fleet. All but one of our ships escaped. Sadly, the lost ship was the one carrying the mission leader, Brother Howe. He had the weapon in his possession. I saw Brother Howe slain by the pirates, but perhaps they still have the mace."		Oskar Tyre NPC 67
200	"How dare you insult me with your presence?  You have chosen the Path of the Light, and have forever renounced me as your teacher.  Go now, and wallow in your weakness somewhere else."	Party good	Daedalus Falk
201	"Your bravery has advanced our faith tremendously, Priests.  It's with pleasure that I can hereby promote all Priests to Priests of the Dark, and all honorary Priests to Honorary Priests of the Dark.  Thank you so much for your help!"	Success	Daedalus Falk
202	"You know…I have a power stone that will activate the portal to the abandoned temple. And you have one that will allow us to reach the island where that portal is!If we joined forces, we could reach the temple with ease. What say you?"	roster 1 full	
203	"Looks like your party's all full up, so I can't travel with you now. But the offer still stands. If you need me, I'll be at the Adventurer's Inn."	roster 2 full	
204	"Do you take Simon Templar, the knight, into your party?  If you would like Simon Templar to join you, click YES.  If you would like him to wait for you at the Adventurer's Inn, click NO."	roster 3 join	
205	"You have to have all the parts together and properly assembled for me to animate it, students!  I can't animate incomplete golems."	Fail	Thomas Grey
206	"Very well. You have done as I have asked of you. Now I will return the favor. I will travel with you to meet your merchant guildmaster, and perhaps beyond if you will have me. There is little for me here.Shall we be off?"	roster 3 full	
207	"It seems that you're party is too full for me to join. I will therefore travel alone to the Adventurer's Inn. Meet me there when you have room. Until then, farewell."	roster 4 full	
208	Would you like Arius the Minotaur to join you?	roster 5 join	
209	"I will be happy to journey with you when your party is not so full. I will travel to the Adventurer's Inn. If you need me, I'll be there."	roster 5 full	
210	Will you have Rohani Oscleton the Dark Elf join you?	roster 6 join	
211	"I'm glad you've decided to take me, but your party is too full. I guess I'll start my adventure by traveling to the Adventurer's Inn. See you there!"	roster 6 full	
212	"Well, I am ready to travel. Shall we go?"	roster 7 join	
213	Hmmm. It seems your party is full. I will travel to the Adventure's Inn. You will find me there ready to join you when you have room. Good luck.	roster 7 full	
214	Will you take Ithilgore the Dragon into your party?	roster 8 join	
215	"Though your party is full, I will still join your cause. I will travel to the Adventurer's Inn. Meet me there if you want me to travel with you."	roster 8 full	
216	Will you take Karanya Memoria the Necromancer into your party?	roster 9 join	
217	"I cannot travel with you now; your party is too full. If you want me to journey with you, you will find me at the Adventurer's Inn."	roster 9 full	
218	Will you accept Maylander the Cleric as a follower?	roster 10 join	
219	"Hmm, I prefer to travel with a smaller party than you have. Tell you what…I'll travel to the Adventurer's Inn. If you want me I'll be there. 'Til then, farewell."	roster 10 full	
220	I will always be in your debt for saving my father.  It would be an honor and a privilege if you allowed me to travel with you.'	roster 11 join	
221	"Though I am honored that you would have me, I cannot join you for your party is full.  You can find me in the Adventurer's Inn if you ever wish my services."	roster 11 full	
222	The Clan of Balthazar will always be in your debt for recovering the Axe of Balthazar and returning it to Masul.  Long may Masul lead us!  I would be honored if you would allow me to travel with you.	roster 12 join	
223	"I am honored that you would allow me to travel with you, however, I see that your group is full.  I will travel to the Adventurer's Inn.  You can find me there if you wish me to join you in your travels."	roster 12 full	
224	"Now that my herd is safe, I will gladly join you. I'm sure Herdmaster Masul will not object to me helping the saviors of my people. Shall we?"	roster 13 join	
225	"I can see that your party is too large to include me in its ranks. Still, my thirst for adventure has been whetted by your offer. I will travel to Ravenshore and seek my fortune there. Perhaps you will find me at the Adventurer's Inn there. I will look for you there!"	roster 13 full	
226	Will you take Jasp Thelbourne the Dark Elf into your party?	roster 14 join	
227	"Well, I'd be happy to go with you now, but your party is too full. But, I will make my services available to you. I will go to the Adventurer's Inn. Seek me there if you would have me."	roster 14 full	
228	Will you take Gethric Mercutura the Vampire into your party?	roster 15 join	
229	"Ah, but your party is too full. But now, it is settled. It is a life of adventure I seek! I will travel to the Adventurer's Inn. If you will have me, I will be there."	roster 15 full	
230	Do you take Flamdring the Dragon into your party?	roster 16 join	
231	"Join them? Yes? But no, their numbers are too great. But adventure I still seek. Well then, to the Adventurer's Inn I must go, for there gather those who would seek their fortunes."	roster 16 full	
232	Will you travel with Hevatia Deverbero the Necromancer?	roster 17 join	
233	Your party is too full for me to join. I will go to the Adventure's Inn. You can take me into your group there if you have the room.	roster 17 full	
234	Do you take Verish the Cleric into your party?	roster 18 join	
235	"I know I would serve the Light well by joining you, but your party is too full. I will go to the Adventurer's Inn. Meet me there if you have the room."	roster 18 full	
236	Do you take Nelix Uriel the Knight into your party?	roster 19 join	
237	I can't go with you. Your party is too full. But you know? Things here are wrapping up and I have little to do. I'll travel to the Adventurer's Inn and seek my fortune there. Maybe we'll meet up there.	roster 19 full	
238	Will you take Sethrc Thistlebone the Troll into your party?	roster 20 join	
239	"Hmm…you're party is too full, but still I wish to help you. I will go to the Adventure's Inn. If you need a strong clubber, you will find me there."	roster 20 full	
240	Do you care to travel with Rionel the Minotaur?	roster 21 join	
241	"I can't go with you now. Your party is full. I will still make myself available to you. If you need me, I'll be at the Adventurer's Inn."	roster 21 full	
242	Will you take Adric Stellare the Dark Elf into your party?	roster 22 join	
243	"Yes, I will gladly join you. Unfortunately, your party is too full. Tell you what. I'll go to the Adventurer's Inn. If you want to travel with me, you'll find me there."	roster 22 full	
244	Will you take the Vampire Infaustus into your party?	roster 23 join	
245	"I would go with you, but your party is too full. I prefer to travel with fewer people. I go now to the Adventurer's Inn. There I will find my companions."	roster 23 full	
246	Do you ask Brimstone the Dragon to join you?	roster 24 join	
247	"Ah, but your party is too full. Still, you are clearly the ones I seek. I will go to the Adventurer's Inn. Join with me there when you have room."	roster 24 full	
248	Many our the Shadowspire Guild thanks for recovering the Lost Book of Khel! Perhaps I can join you in your travels to provide my own personal assistance?	roster 25 join	
249	I would like to join you in your travels to provide my own personal assistance but I see that your group is full.  You can find me in the Adventurer's Inn if you need me.	roster 25 full	
250	"It was very noble of you to seek a cure for the knight, Blazen Stormlance.  I would like to join you in your quest! Will you have me?"	roster 26 join	
251	"I wish I could join with you now, but your party is too full. I will wait for you in the Adventurer's Inn. Until then, good luck!"	roster 26 full	
252	Do you take Tempus the Knight into your party?	roster 27 join	
253	"I cannot travel go with you. Your party is much too large for my preferences. I like to work with a smaller, more mobile group. Tell you what. I will go to the Adventurer's Inn. Join me there once you get rid of some of your dead weight."	roster 27 full	
254	Will your travel with Thorne Understone the Troll?	roster 28 join	
255	Great. Listen. I have some business I need to attend to before I can go with you. We'll meet at the Adventurer's Inn. I will join you there.	roster 28 full	
256	Will you take Ulbrecht the Minotaur into your party?	roster 29 join	
257	"I would go with you now, but your party is too full. I will make preparations then travel to the Adventurer's Inn. Meet me there when you have room for me. Until then, good luck!"	roster 29 full	
258	Thanks again for your help!  May I join you?	roster 30 join	
259	I would like to join you in your adventures but your group is already full!  I will await you in the Adventurer's Inn.	roster 30 full	
260	Do you take Artorius Veritas the Vampire into your party?	roster 31 join	
261	"I can't go with you, your party is too full. I will go to the Adventurer's Inn. Join me there."	roster 31 full	
262	"Do you take the Dragon, Duroth the Eternal into your party?"	roster 32 join	
263	"I will join you, but not now. I have to see to some matters which will take me some days to deal with. After I'm done I will go to the Adventurer's Inn. Meet me there."	roster 32 full	
264	Do you agree to travel with Nathaniel Roberts the Necromancer?	roster 33 join	
265	"Fah! You are more a mob than an adventuring party. I'm looking for a smaller group. I will seek them at the Adventurer's Inn. If you want to journey with me…well, perhaps you'll find me there."	roster 33 full	
266	"I will gladly join you. My desire for revenge has been a thirst long in need of slaking. You have provided me with the cup. Let us go and fill it!Dyson Leland offers to join your party. Do you accept?"	roster 33 full	
267	"Your group is too full for me to join, but here is my plan…I will make my escape from the guild and meet you at the Adventurer's Inn. It may take me some time to get there, as I must travel with caution.Meet me there when you can. My revenge has waited for over a year. It can wait a few more weeks. Wish me luck!"	roster 33 full	
268	"I will be forever in your debt.  Not only did you rescue me from the lair of Zanthora, but you helped my daughter be promoted by Sir Charles Quixote.  I would like to join you in your travels!"	roster 35 join	
269	"Unfortunately, there is not enough room in your group for me to join you now.  I can be found in the Adventurer's Inn if you need me."	roster 35 full	
270	"You have to get the plans to him before he attacks Riverstride.  If you don't, they won't lead his forces into all the traps we've prepared for them.  So hurry up and deliver those plans!  I'm counting on you!"	Fail	Queen Catherine
271	"You told the king the plans were fake?!?  [The Queen puts her hand on her head, jaw agape] I have never seen such incompetence in all my life!  Astounding!  Get out of my sight!  Just go!  "	Idiots	Queen Catherine
272	"[The Queen raises her eyebrows with interest as you tell her how you infiltrated her fort, stole secret plans, and killed many of her guards while in the service of a foreign king] I wish I could truthfully say this is the most shocking treason I have ever witnessed, but unfortunately, it's not.  Nonetheless...Guards!  Off with their heads!"	We stole the plans	Queen Catherine
273	"Well, time ran out for poor Loren.  He was executed for espionage by Avlee on schedule.  Don't bother with the rescue.  He's gone."	Time ran out - Prisoner	Queen Catherine
274	King Parson is beyond the date when he could have used those false papers.  Don't bother taking them to him--it doesn't matter anymore.  	Time ran out - Riverstride	Queen Catherine
275	"Welcome.  I understand you've been appointed Lords of Harmondale by that idiot Markham.  You know, I WILL restore Avlee's rule over Harmondale--the only question is whether you are with me, or against me.  If you're with me, I will ensure that you retain your post.  Against me, and I will have done with you once my armies occupy your lands.  [King Parson smiles affably] So, of course you're with me!  You just need to prove it.  Like a famous leader once said:  Trust, but verify!  Words to live by.  What I want right now is the plans to Fort Riverstride.  It's a huge fort that stands between your lands and Erathia proper.  You can't miss the thing.  Sneak in there and get me those plans.  If you can do this, I will be in your debt.  Not only that, there's a substantial gold reward as well.  If the plans are to be any use to me at all, though, I need them delivered to me within a month."	Time ran out - Riverstride	Queen Catherine
276	"[The King smiles broadly as you hand him the plans]  Thank you!  These will be VERY useful.  My factor will deposit 5,000 gold pieces in your bank account for services rendered.  When we finally win this round against Erathia, I will not forget you."	Success	ElfKing
277	"I really do need those plans soon.  If you take too long, I'll have to prepare my attack without the plans."	Fail	ElfKing
278	"[The King smiles broadly as you hand him the false plans.  Sucker! ]  Thank you!  These will be VERY useful.  When we finally win this round against Erathia, I will not forget you."	Betrayal	ElfKing
279	"What do you mean, these plans are false?  So you admit to plotting against me?  [The King throws up his hands in disgust] Guards!  Take these traitors to the courtyard and execute them!"	Fake plans	ElfKing
280	"The wily queen moves against me, eh?  [The King frowns in thought, then brightens] I have an idea!  I know someone who looks just like that spy she wants you to rescue.  Bring my man with you and deliver him to the Queen.  She's never met him, and won't know the difference.  His 'inside information' will encourage her to make mistakes.  [The King takes a moment to summon the imposter]  Be careful not to tip your hand.  It wouldn't do for her to discover our little plan.  "	First time Prison Break	ElfKing
281	"The imposter has infiltrated her military and diplomatic advisors' ranks, and will cause plenty of damage before he's discovered, I'm sure.  Thank you for your help! My factor will deposit 5000 gold into your account at the bank."	Success	ElfKing
282	"It's important to get the imposter to the Queen before Mr. Steel's scheduled execution.  After all, you can't rescue Mr. Steel if everyone knows I've executed him.  And she'll become suspicious if I stay the execution.  I've never stayed one before."	Fail	ElfKing
283	You told Queen Catherine about the imposter?!? I can't believe my ears!  Why did you do it?  Why?  [The King stands and points at the door] Get out!	Idiots	ElfKing
284	"[The king is silent while you detail your crimes against Avlee, then smiles and spreads his hands once you've finished] Well!  I suppose that story speaks for itself, doesn't it?  Guards!  Take these traitors to the courtyard and execute them!"	We rescued Loren	ElfKing
285	"The time where I could have used those plans is over.  Thanks for any efforts you may have put into finding them, but I no longer need the plans."	Time ran out - Riverstride	ElfKing
286	The execution date for Loren Steel has passed.  Don't bother bringing the imposter to the Queen--she'll be too suspicious for our ruse to succeed.  He'll be leaving you now.	Time ran out - Prisoner	ElfKing
287	"My loyal subjects!  You were the ones who took the Trumpet!  Good work.  We thought it lost forever.  Once again, my purser will deposit gold in your account.  5,000 gold, to be exact."	Artifact	Queen Catherine
288	"Ah, the Trumpet!  You captured it!  We weren't sure how things turned out when news of the human raid reached us.  Thank you again, my friends.  My factor will deposit 5,000 gold in your account for your services."	Artifact	ElfKing
289	"If there is one piece of advice I could give you, it would be to fix your castle.  I don't know how you're going to find the gold and workers to do it, as only wealthy nobles and kings can afford such large scale projects.  I suppose it's the old chicken and egg question...you must appear noble to gain wealth and respect, but you must have wealth and respect in order to appear noble.  In any event, if you expect to be lords of Harmondale for more than a few months, you need to find a way to prove you're not just lucky peasants.  You must prove that you're fit to rule."	Artifact	ElfKing
290	"Once again, the Human kingdom of Erathia and the Elvish kingdom of Harmondale are fighting.  As the local Judge, it has fallen to me to patch up their differences and bring the two sides to the negotiating table.  The two sides are so evenly matched that either could prevail.  [The judge leans closer to you, lowering his voice] And I'll tell you something else--I don't much care anymore who wins.  They are like children fighting over a toy.  Neither really wants Harmondale--they just want to deny it to the other.  So, you're on your own.  Whatever actions you take now in support of one side or another could really make a difference.  Just remember that they couldn't possibly care less what happens to you or who rules in Harmondale.  Protect yourselves and your people first.  We didn't have this conversation."	Arbiter hint	ElfKing
291	You were wise to return the Trumpet to me.  Now I can use it to help shore up the weak side in this conflict and promote peace.  Thank you.  	Artifact	Arbiter artifact
292	"A wise decision.  You won't regret this--believe me.  I knew you were going to make this decision, and my bags are already packed and ready to go.  All you need to do now is get me to my new home, and I'll take care of the rest."	I choose you!	Evil Arbiter
293	"Your first order of business is to talk to Lord Ironfist and complete his 'mission.'  Once your ability and loyalty are proven, you will be allowed to help in more…interesting… ways."	Hint - Proving Ground	Evil Arbiter
294	"Each of the advisors to Lord Ironfist has a task for you, complete each one.  Talk to Kastore, Dark Shade, and Maaximus for more information.  The completion of these tasks is vital for our future."	Hint - Tasks	Evil Arbiter
295	Tolberti has a mission of great importance.  Everything we've staked so far rests on its completion.  Prepare well for his task or you will certainly fail.	Hint - Kill Opposing person	Evil Arbiter
296	Xenofex and the rest of the Kreegan must be put down; go to their 'hive' in the Land of the Giants and put a stop to Xenofex and his minions once and for all.	Hint - Get devil part	Evil Arbiter
297	"You will need to visit the craft that brought Kastore and his men to Erathia to continue.  Go west of Avlee, and make sure to be properly outfitted."	Hint - Do the ship	Evil Arbiter
298	Bring the Oscillation Overthruster back to Kastore with all possible speed!  Every moment you dally allows a chance for failure!	Hint - Return piece	Evil Arbiter
299	"Great!  You've done the right thing!  Though the path of light can be hard to walk at times, the ultimate rewards are well worth it.  I'm already prepared for the trip.  All you need to do now is get me to my new home, and I'll take care of the rest."	I choose you!	Good Arbiter
300	"So you seek to further your skills with the staff? Excellent! The staff can work offensively and defensively, and make you more difficult to hit. My teachings will raise you to Expert level, but first you must have a skill level of 4 with the staff and of course there is my small fee of 2000 gold."	Expert Staff (2)	James
301	"You wish to continue on the path of mastery of the staff? If you prove an apt pupil and have already achieved an Expert skill level of 7 with the staff, I will gladly instruct you to Master level for 5000 gold.  With the skills I will teach you will have a chance to stun your opponent!"	Master Staff (4)	James
302	"To achieve Grand Mastery of the staff, you must deal with me! Before I can instruct you, you must have reached a Master Skill level of 10 with the staff, and pay my price of 8000 gold.  If you meet my qualifications, I will teach you to wield the staff dealing out addition damage equal to the level of your skill."	Grand Master Staff (6)	James
303	"So the sword is your weapon of choice, and you would like to have the skill to slay more effectively? Then I can help you!  My instruction will teach you to use your blade more quickly than before. If you have 2000 gold and have reached a skill level of 4 with the sword, I will instruct you to Expert level."	Expert Sword (2)	James
304	"Bah!  Even the strongest plate armor can be sliced like a melon by someone who can wield a sword with Mastery!  With an Expert sword level of 7 and 5000 gold this I can teach you!   With the skills I teach, you can carry another weapon in your left hand, making you twice as deadly."	Master Sword (13)	James
305	"Even the cheapest steel can save the life of a warrior who has achieved Grand Mastery of the sword. With Grand Mastery you will be more difficult to hit.  If you have reached a Master skill of 10 with the sword and can pay my fee of 8000, I will teach you all the techniques of a Grand Master Swordsman."	Grand Master Sword (5)	James
306	"I have a dagger and I bet I can kill you before you draw yours! Speed can kill and the dagger is the fastest weapon! With what I can teach you, you can carry another weapon in your off hand. Two are better than one. The Expert skills of the dagger can be yours if you have a dagger skill level of 4 and can pay my modest fee of 2000 gold."	Expert Dagger (3)	James
307	Ha!  The fastest survive! As a Master of the dagger I have and will survive! My teachings can greatly increase your chance of causing critical damage! If you have an Expert skill level of 7 and 5000 gold I can lead you to Mastery!	Master Dagger (2)	James
308	"The quickest dagger--the one that is never seen--is the ultimate weapon.  You can rapidly attack your foe before he has a chance to strike you once.  With Grand Mastery of the dagger, this can be yours.  You must have a Master skill level of 10 and 8000 gold to receive my instruction."	Grand Master Dagger (13)	James
309	"Speed kills, especially when that speed is driving an axe. With my instruction you can have this Expert ability. You will strike more quickly than before, demolishing your foes! You must first have a skill level of 4 with the axe and pay my price of 2000 gold."	Expert Axe (5)	James
310	"Mastery of the axe and skilled hands can split an opponent's head like a pudding. With my instruction you can have this ability! You blows will cause more damage than before, devastating your opponents! But first you must have an Expert skill level of 7 with the axe and pay my price of 5000 gold."	Master Axe (2)	James
311	"As a Grand Master of the axe, your opponents' armor will mean nothing.  The effectiveness of their armor will be cut in half as you slice it from their carcasses! I can teach you this skill, but you first must have a Master skill level of 10 with the axe and pay me 8000 gold."	Grand Master Axe (7)	James
312	Spear expertise makes you one with your weapon.  With this skill you will cause more damage to your foes.  I can raise you to an Expert level if your skill level is 4 and you have 2000 gold.	Expert Spear (2)	James
313	The spear is your weapon of choice? Would you like to learn to carry a shield or another weapon in your off hand to improve your combat ability?  This Master knowledge can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 with the spear and 5000 gold.	Master Spear (3)	James
314	"So you seek to further your skills with the spear? Excellent! The spear can work offensively and defensively, and make you more difficult to hit. My teachings will raise you to Grand Master, but first you must have a Master skill level of 10 with the spear and of course there is my small fee of 8000 gold."	Grand Master Spear (1)	James
315	"Like to keep your enemy beyond arm's reach do you?  The bow is the best way to slay your enemy before he can harm you.  With my teachings you'll reach Expert status and be able to fire your bow more quickly, thus eliminating your enemy at range.  I will teach you if your skill level with the bow is 4 and you pay the price of 2000 gold."	Expert Bow (1)	James
316	Think you are fast with the bow?  The speed you have now is nothing compared to what I can teach you.  My Master lessons can teach you to fire 2 arrows where Experts can only fire one.  This requires an Expert skill of 7 with the bow and the fee of 5000 gold.	Master Bow (2)	James
317	"Speed with the bow can definitely be an advantage, but that speed combined with the knowledge of how to seriously injure your foe can be the difference between life and death.  I will teach you Grand Mastery of the bow and you will increase the amount of damage that each shot does.  You must be a Master with a skill level of 10 and pay 8000 gold for this instruction."	Grand Master Bow (3)	James
318	"The mace is a subtle weapon.  Where blades and dagger slash the flesh, the mace can break bones and destroy organs without all the bloody mess. As an Expert with the mace you will inflict more damage, increasing combat effectiveness.  If you have achieved a skill level of 4 and pay 2000 I will instruct you."	Expert Mace (2)	James
319	"Who needs subtlety when your opponent is unconscious?  Mastery of the mace will give you the chance to stun or even paralyze your enemy.  For 5000 gold and proof that you have reached an Expert skill level of 7, I will teach you Mastery of the mace."	Master Mace (5)	James
320	"A greater chance to subdue your foes means a smaller chance you will be hurt yourself.  Grand Mastery of the mace will increase your chances of stunning or even paralyzing your foes.  If you have a Master skill level of 10 and can pay me 8000 gold, I will instruct you."	Grand Master Mace (4)	James
321	"Well, now that things seem to be settled with our little war with the Temple of the Sun. Sandro has said that guild members may turn their attention to other matters. Since arriving in Jadame, I have seen little of it save for the lands of Shadowspire. Say...perhaps you could use my services!"		Hevatia Deverbero NPC 466
322	"I wish I could join with you. Sadly, our war with the Temple of the Sun takes up all of our time. The guild cannot spare me now."		Hevatia Deverbero NPC 466
323	"Yes! I would love to join with you. Now that our holy war against the foul Necromancers' Guild seems to be going well, I find I have little to do around here. I will go with you if you will take me."		Verish NPC 467
324	"The shield can be your friend.  It keeps those who wish you dead from striking at you.  With the Expert skill in shield I can teach you, you will eliminate the penalty to your weapon's recovery for carrying a shield.  This skill can be yours for 1000 gold and proof of a skill level of 4 with the shield."	Expert Shield (3)	James
325	"Mastery of the shield makes its defensive bonus doubly effective, making you that much harder to hit!  I will teach you Mastery of the shield if you have reached an Expert skill level of 7 and pay me 3000 gold."	Master Shield (6)	James
326	"Under my Grand Master tutelage, you will learn to make the shield the ultimate defense.  Not only will it protect you in melee but will also give you the benefits of the Shield spell.  This skill can be yours if you have reached a Master skill level of 10 with the shield and pay me 7000 gold."	Grand Master Shield (5)	James
327	"Leather armor is the lightest protection around.  It keeps those who wish you dead from harming you.  With the Expert skill in leather armor, you will eliminate the penalty to your weapon's recovery caused by wearing armor.  This skill can be yours for 1000 gold and proof of a skill level of 4 in leather."	Expert Leather (1)	James
328	"Mastery of leather armor makes its defensive bonus doubly effective, making you that much harder to hit!  I will teach you Mastery of leather armor if you have reached an Expert skill level of 7 and pay me 3000 gold."	Master Leather (7)	James
329	"Under my Grand Master tutelage, you will learn to make leather armor your ultimate defense.  Not only will it protect you in melee but will also protect you from the elemental spells of Earth, Air, Fire and Water.  This skill can be yours if you have reached a Master skill level of 10 with leather armor and pay me 7000 gold."	Grand Master Leather (4)	James
330	"Chain armor is more durable than leather and offers more protection.  It keeps those who wish you dead from harming you.  With the Expert skill in chain armor, you will cut the penalty to your weapon's recovery caused by wearing armor in half.  This skill can be yours for 1000 gold and proof of a skill level of 4 in chain."	Expert Chain (2)	James
331	Mastery of chain armor eliminates the penalty to your weapon's recovery caused by wearing armor.  I will teach you Mastery of chain armor if you have reached an Expert skill level of 7 and pay me 3000 gold.	Master Chain (13)	James
332	"Under my Grand Master tutelage, you will learn to make chain armor your ultimate defense.  Under my instruction you will learn to use chain to take less damage from the physical blows that hit you.  This skill can be yours if you have reached a Master skill level of 10 with chain armor and pay me 7000 gold."	Grand Master Chain (3)	James
333	"Plate armor is the ultimate protection; compared to it, leather and chain are nothing.  With the Expert skill in plate armor, you will cut the penalty to your weapon's recovery caused by wearing armor in half.  This skill can be yours for 1000 gold and proof of a skill level of 4 in plate."	Expert Plate (1)	James
334	Mastery of plate armor cuts the amount of damage from physical attacks in half.  I will teach you Mastery of plate armor if you have reached an Expert skill level of 7 and pay me 3000 gold.	Master Plate (2)	James
335	Grand Mastery of plate armor eliminates the penalty to your weapon's recovery caused by wearing armor.  I will teach you Grand Mastery of plate armor if you have reached a Master skill level of 10 and pay me 7000 gold.	Grand Master Plate (5)	James
336	With Expert Fire Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for Fire.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Fire Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Fire Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	Expert Fire_Magic (2)	James
337	With Master Fire Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Fire Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Fire Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	Master Fire_Magic (7)	James
338	With Grand Master Fire Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Fire Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Fire Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	Grand Master Fire_Magic (11)	James
339	With Expert Air Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Air Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Air Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	Expert Air_Magic (1)	James
340	With Master Air Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Air Magic can be yours if you have a Expert skill level of 7 in Air Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	Master Air_Magic (1)	James
341	With Grand Master Air Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Air Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Air Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	Grand Master Air_Magic (9)	James
342	With Expert Water Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Water Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Water Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	Expert Water_Magic (2)	James
343	With Master Water Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Water Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Water Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	Master Water_Magic (4)	James
344	With Grand Master Water Magic you can learn the Grand Master spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Water Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Water Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	Grand Master Water_Magic (12)	James
345	With Expert Earth Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Earth Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Earth Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	Expert Earth_Magic (1)	James
346	With Master Earth Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Earth Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Earth Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	Master Earth_Magic (8)	James
347	"With Grand Master Earth Magic you can learn the Grand Master spell for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Earth Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Earth Magic, and can pay the price of 8000 gold."	Grand Master Earth_Magic (10)	James
348	With Expert Spirit Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this devotion.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Spirit Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Spirit Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	Expert Spirit_Magic (2)	James
349	With Master Spirit Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this devotion.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Spirit Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Spirit Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	Master Spirit_Magic (5)	James
350	With Grand Master Spirit Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this devotion.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Spirit Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Spirit Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	Grand Master Spirit_Magic (8)	James
351	With Expert Mind Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this devotion.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Mind Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in mind Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	Expert Mind_Magic (3)	James
352	With Master Mind Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this devotion.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Mind Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Mind Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	Master Mind_Magic (7)	James
353	With Grand Master Mind Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this devotion.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Mind Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Mind Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	Grand Master Mind_Magic (8)	James
354	With Expert Body Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this devotion.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Body Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Body Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	Expert Body_Magic (1)	James
355	With Master Body Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this devotion.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Body Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Body Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	Master Body_Magic (5)	James
356	With Grand Master Body Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this devotion.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Body Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Body Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	Grand Master Body_Magic (8)	James
357	With Expert Light Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Light Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Light Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	Expert Light_Magic (2)	James
358	With Master Light Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Light Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Light Magic and can pay the price of 5000 gold.	Master Light_Magic (13)	James
359	With Grand Master Light Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Light Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Light Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	Grand Master Light_Magic (8)	James
360	With Expert Dark Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Dark Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Dark Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	Expert Dark_Magic (3)	James
361	With Master Dark Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Dark Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Dark Magic and can pay the price of 5000 gold.	Master Dark_Magic (13)	James
362	With Grand Master Dark Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this element.  Higher level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Dark Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Dark Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	Grand Master Dark_Magic (6)	James
363	"Advancing your skills to the level of Expert with your natural Dark Elf Ability grants you the use of the Travelers' Boon spell. This spell combines the effects of the spells Wizard Eye, Torch Light and Feather Fall.  To achieve an Expert Skill level your normal Skill level must be 4 and you must pay me 1000 gold."	Expert Dark Elf	James
364	Mastery of your natural Dark Elf ability would make you that much stronger!  With Mastery you gain the ability to Blind your opponents during battle.  To reach the Skill level of Master you must have and Expert Skill level of 7 and pay me 4000 gold.	Master Dark Elf (2)	James
365	"You seek the skill of a Grand Master Dark Elf?  Not many gain this title.  Grand Mastery bestows the power of the spell Darkfire. This is a truly devastating magical attack!  You will need to prove you hold a Master skill level of 10 and pay a small fee of 8000 gold.  Once these requirements are met, Grand Mastery is yours!"	Grand Master Dark Elf (3)	James
366	Advancing your skills to the level of Expert with your natural Vampire Ability grants you the use of the Levitate spell.  To achieve an Expert skill level your normal skill level must be 4 and you must pay me 1000 gold.	Expert Vampire	James
367	Mastery of your natural Vampire ability would make you that much stronger!  With Mastery you gain the ability to Charm your opponents during battle.  To reach the skill level of Master you must have an Expert skill level of 7 and pay me 4000 gold.	Master Vampire (6)	James
368	"You seek the skill of a Grand Master Vampire?  Not many gain this title.  Grand Mastery bestows the power of Mistform, which makes you immune to all physical attacks!  Of course you will only be able to attack with spells in this form, but is well worth it!  You will need to prove a Master Skill level of 10 to me and pay a small fee of 8000 old.  Once these requirements are met, Grand Mastery is yours!"	Grand Master Vampire (6)	James
369	Advancing your skills to the level of Expert with your natural Dragon Ability grants you the use of the Flame Blast spell. This spell increases the power of your already might breath weapon.  To achieve an Expert skill level your normal skill level must be 4 and you must pay me 1000 gold.	Expert Dragon	James
370	"Mastery of your natural Dragon Ability would make you that much stronger!  With Mastery you gain the ability of Flight, allowing you to carry your entire party!  To reach the skill level of Master you must have an Expert Skill level of 7 and pay me 4000 gold."	Master Dragon (5)	James
371	"You seek the skill of a Grand Master Dragon?  Not many gain this title.  Grand Mastery bestows the power of the Wing Buffet attack!  This attack pushes your opponents back, allowing you to unleash the full power of your Flame Blast!  You will need to prove a Master Skill level of 10 to me and pay a small fee of 8000 gold.  Once these requirements are met, Grand Mastery is yours!"	Grand Master Dragon (5)	James
372	"Ever sold an item that turned out to be better than your existing equipment?  Nothing worse than having a merchant snicker at you for not knowing what you're selling. With Expert Identify Item you can attempt to identify weapons and armor to prevent this embarrassment. If your skill level is 4 and you pay 500 gold, I will teach you."	Expert Identify_Item	James
373	"Wands, scrolls, rings and potions can be important items, and not knowing what they are is just foolishness.  With Mastery of the Identify Items skill you can attempt to identify weapons, armor, and other miscellaneous items.  For a small fee of 2500 gold and demonstration of an Expert Skill level of 7, I can teach you Mastery of the Identify Items skill."	Master Identify_Item	James
374	"Found and ancient item or relic and don’t know what it does or what its for?  Ignorance, in this case, is not bliss. In fact, it could very well kill. With Grand Mastery of the Identify Item skill you can attempt to identify anything you have found including artifacts and relics.  A Master skill level of 10 and 6000 gold is all that is required to learn this skill."	Grand Master Identify_Item	James
375	Shop owners are a greedy lot.  Want to get better prices for what you buy and sell?  Then you better have the Merchant skill and fast. I can teach you the Expert level Merchant skill if you have a skill level of 4 and pay 2000 gold.  Expertise doubles your bonus towards prices.	Expert Merchant (1)	James
376	"Shop owners are a greedy lot.  Want to get better prices for what you buy and sell?  Then you better have the Merchant skill and learn the ins and outs of trading. I can teach you Mastery of the Merchant skill if you have an Expert skill level of 7, a Personality of 50 and pay 5000 gold.  Mastery triples your bonus towards prices."	Master Merchant (3)	James
377	"Shop owners are a greedy lot.  Want to get better prices for what you buy and sell?  Then you better have the Merchant skill and learn the ins and outs of trading. I can teach you Grand Mastery of the Merchant skill if you have a Master skill level of 10 and pay 8000 gold.  Grand Mastery allows you to pay and receive the actual price for goods."	Master Merchant (3)	James
378	"Your equipment is only as good as the person who repairs it.  If you can't fix it, you could find yourself stuck in the wilderness with no armor or weapons.  This could be extraordinarily bad. Expertise with the Repair Item skill allows you not only the chance of repairing weapons, but armor as well.  This skill can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 and pay 500 gold."	Expert Repair_Item	James
379	"Your equipment is only as good as the person who repairs it.  If you can't fix it, you could find yourself stuck in the wilderness with no armor or weapons.  This could be extraordinarily bad. Mastery of the Repair Item skill allows you not only the chance of repairing weapons and armor, but any broken miscellaneous item as well.  This skill can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 and pay 2500 gold."	Master Reapir_Item	James
380	"Your equipment is only as good as the person who repairs it.  If you can't fix it, you could find yourself stuck in the wilderness with no armor or weapons.  This could be extraordinarily bad. A Grand Master of the Repair Items kill can fix ANYTHING that is broken.  This skill can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 and pay 6000 gold."	Grand Master Repair_Item	James
381	"So you think you are adventurers, do you?  There's not enough meat on you to protect you from the slap of a Dark Dwarven child!  Body Building is the only way to go.  You will be stronger and tougher than before!  An Expert of Body Building is tougher than the normal hero.  I can teach you this if your skill level is 4, pay 500 gold and are ready to sweat!"	Expert Body_building (1)	James
382	"So you think you are adventurers, do you?  There's not enough meat on you to protect you from the slap of a baby Troll!  Body Building is the only way to go.  You will be stronger and tougher than before!  A Master of Body Building is much tougher than the average hero.  I can teach you this if your Expert skill level is 7, pay 2500 gold and have and Endurance of 50! No pain no gain!"	Master Body_Building (5)	James
383	"So you think you are adventurers, do you?  There's not enough meat on you to protect you from the slap of a baby Dragon!  Body Building is the only way to go.  You will be stronger and tougher than before!  A Grand Master of Body Building is the toughest hero you can find.  I can teach you this if your Master skill level is 9, pay 6000 gold and have and Endurance of 50! No pain no gain!"	Grand Master Body_Building (4)	James
384	Not enough spell points for casting those Expert spells?  Meditation is what you need.  With an Expert skill in Meditation you get a double bonus to your available spell points.  This could mean one more powerful spell when you most need it!  Expertise can be yours if your skill level is 4 and pay me 500 gold.	Expert Meditation (2)	James
385	Not enough spell points for casting those Master spells?  Meditation is what you need.  With a Master skill in Meditation you get a triple bonus to your available spell points.  This could mean one more powerful spell when you most need it!  Mastery can be yours if your Expert skill level is 7 and pay me 2500 gold.	Master Meditation (7)	James
386	Not enough spell points for casting those Grand Master spells?  Meditation is what you need.  With a Grand Master skill in Meditation you get a quadruple bonus to your available spell points.  This could mean one or more powerful spells when you most need them!  Grand Mastery can be yours if your Master skill level is 10 and pay me 6000 gold.	Grand Master Meditation (6)	James
387	"Things are sometime hidden in the dungeons and castles of this land.   You may have missed something without even knowing it was there.  Perception increases your chance of finding these hidden things. Expertise in the Perception skill doubles your chances.  For 500 gold and a skill level of 4 in Perception, I will teach you."	Expert Perception (3)	James
388	"Things are sometime hidden in the dungeons and castles of this land.   You may have missed something without even knowing it was there.  Perception increases your chance of finding these hidden things. Mastery of the Perception skill triples your chances.  For 2500 gold and an Expert skill level of 7 in Perception, I will teach you."	Master Perception (6)	James
389	"Things are sometime hidden in the dungeons and castles of this land.  You may have missed something without even knowing it was there.  Perception increases your chance of finding these hidden things. Grand Mastery of the Perception skill quintuples your chances. For 6000 gold and a Master skill level of 10 in Perception, I will teach you."	Grand Master Perception (7)	James
390	An Expert level in the Regeneration skill doubles the number of hit points that you recover over time.  Expert teaching of this skill requires a normal skill level of 4 and a fee of 2000 gold.	Expert Regeneration	James
391	A Master skill level in the Regeneration skill triples the number of hit points that you recover over time.  Master teaching of this skill requires a Expert skill level of 7 and a fee of 5000 gold.	Master Regeneration	James
392	Grand Mastery of the Regeneration skill quadruples the number of hit points that you recover over time.  Grand Master teaching of this skill requires a Master skill level of 10 and a fee of 8000 gold.	Grand Master Regeneration	James
393	"Tired of chests blowing up in your face?  Sick of poison gas clouds, fireballs, and lightning bolts sending party members to the Great Beyond?  Expert Disarm Trap doubles your chance of disarming these traps before they go off.  I will teach you Expert Disarm Trap if you have a skill level of 4 and can pay 500 gold."	Expert Disarm_Trap (1)	James
394	"Tired of chests blowing up in your face?  Sick of poison gas clouds, fireballs, and lightning bolts sending party members to the Great Beyond?  Master Disarm Trap triples your chance of disarming these traps before they go off.  I will teach you Master Disarm Trap if you have an Expert skill level of 7 and can pay 2500 gold."	Master Disarm_Trap (13)	James
395	"Tired of chests blowing up in your face?  Sick of poison gas clouds, fireballs, and lightning bolts sending party members to the Great Beyond?  Grand Master Disarm Trap eliminates these pesky traps entirely before they go off.  I will teach you Grand Master Disarm Trap if you have a Master skill level of 10 and can pay 6000 gold."	Grand Master Disarm_Trap (3)	James
396	"I wish I could. Unfortunately, we make holy war with the foul Necromancers' Guild. All of the Sun Temple's resources, including myself, are dedicated to that cause."		Verish NPC 467
397	"Adventure with you? Yes I will. In fact, before he left, Charles Quixote suggested just that. ""Nelix,"" he said, ""if those alliance heroes come by, you ought to consider going with them."" Apparently, he thinks highly of you. Well, his recommendation is enough for me. Shall we go?"		Nelix Uriel NPC 468
398	Go with you? I think not. Why would I want to join up with a bunch of amateurs when I have all the action I can handle here? Don't make me laugh. What can you offer me that a life of Dragon hunting does not?		Nelix Uriel NPC 468
399	"Go with you? I like the idea, but I must stay here. I am one of the last veteran warriors left here. I must stay to protect the village."		Sethrc Thistlebone NPC 469
400	"Yes, that sounds good. Though the village could use me to protect it, I think the best I could do for it would be to go with you. My people will be destroyed if the cataclysm is not ended. If I can do something to stop it, I should."		Sethrc Thistlebone NPC 469
401	"Join your group? I would be glad to. Not only have you done a great service for my herd, it has become clear to me that your actions will decide our very survival."		Rionel NPC 470
402	Knowing what you are up against in combat can mean the difference between life and death.  Being able to identify the monsters and opponents you are fighting can make this difference. I can teach you Expert Identify Monster if you already have a skill level of 4 and pay 500 gold.	Expert Identify_Monster	James
403	"He who runs away today lives to run away another day.  This doesn't necessarily mean he is a coward, however.  He may just be very smart.  He may know how his opponent attacks and what spells he may use, if any.  I can teach you Master Identify Monster if you have achieved an Expert skill level of 7 and can pay 2500 gold."	Master Identify_Monster	James
404	"If you can probe your enemies defenses and know his weaknesses, you will always prevail.  With Grand Mastery of Identify Monster, you will know how your enemies attack and what their defenses are.  This knowledge will allow you to attack their weakest points. I can raise you to Grand Master of this skill if you have a Master skill level of 10 and pay 6000 gold."	Grand Master Identify_Monster	James
405	Knowledge of a single weapon is great.  Having knowledge of all weapons is even better.  Expert Armsmaster skill increases you chance to hit with any melee weapon you can wield. I can make you an Expert Armsmaster if you have a skill level of 4 and pay 2000 gold.	Expert Armsmaster	James
406	Knowledge of a single melee weapon is great.  Having knowledge of all melee weapons is even better. Master Armsmaster increases the damage you do with any weapon you can wield. I can make you a Master Armsmaster if you have an Expert skill level of 7 and pay 5000 gold.	Master Armsmaster	James
407	Knowledge of a single melee weapon is great.  Having knowledge of all melee weapons is even better.  Armsmaster skill decreases the recovery time of any melee weapon you are already skilled with and gives the chance for greater inflicted damage.  Grand Master expertise doubles both your chance to hit and damage bonuses for the skill. I can make you a Grand Master Armsmaster if you have a Master skill level of 10 and pay 8000 gold.	Grand Master Armsmaster	James
408	"Join you? I must decline the offer. Though you have done a great service for my herd, I am not yet sure of your leadership. I want to help fight the cataclysm, but I'm not sure your way is the right one."		Rionel NPC 470
409	"Don't think your exploits have gone unnoticed! Clearly you are adventurers of the highest caliber. I would consider joining your team…that is, if you will have me."		Adric Stellare NPC 471
410	"I see you too are adventurers. But…well, can I be frank? Though I don't doubt your potential, clearly you are not the most experienced group I've seen. I'd be happy to join you if you were more…shall we say, ""seasoned?"""		Adric Stellare NPC 471
411	Tired of the simple potions mixtures?  Want to make something new and potent?  Want to create compound potions?  This knowledge of Expert Alchemy can be yours if you demonstrate a skill level of 4 and pay 500 gold.	Expert Alchemy	James
412	Want to know how to use potions and compound potions to make white potions?  I can raise you to Master knowledge of Alchemy if you have an Expert skill level of 7 and pay 2500 gold.	Master Alchemy	James
413	"The black potion is the Alchemist's ultimate creation!  They can affect so many different things and are even wonderful to taste!  Grand Mastery of Alchemy can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Alchemy, possess one of each of the best reagents and pay 6000 gold."	Grand Master Alchemy	James
414	"Learning allows you to gain more experience from your travels and encounters. Expert Learning doubles the bonus to gained experience, leading you down the path of greater wisdom.  I will instruct you in Expert Learning if your skill level is 4 and you pay me 2000 gold."	Expert Learning (7)	James
415	"Learning allows you to gain more experience from your travels and encounters. Master Learning triples the bonus to gained experience, leading you down the path of greater wisdom.  I will instruct you in Master Learning if you have an Expert skill level of 7, pay me 5000 gold and have and Intellect of 50."	Master Learning (6)	James
416	"Learning allows you to gain more experience from your travels and encounters. Grand Master Learning quintuples the bonus to gained experience, leading you down the path of greater wisdom.  I will instruct you in Grand Master Learning if you have a Master skill level of 10, pay me 8000 gold and have and Intellect of 50."	Grand Master Learning (5)	James
417	"Puddle Thain, is a most promising student.  If you seek Expert instruction in the uses of the Staff, you can find him in the city of Ravenshore."	Expert Staff hint	Expert Staff (2)
418	"Celia Stone, Master of the Staff, dwells in Troll village of Rust in the Ironsand Desert.  She can instruct you to Mastery of the Staff is that is what you desire."	Master Staff hint	Master Staff (4)
419	"Grand Master Tristen Stillwater, instructs all students of the Staff.  Only he can help you in attaining Grand Mastery of this fine weapon.  Seek him out in the city of Twilight at the base of the Shadowspire."	Grandmaster Staff hint	Grand Master Staff (6)
420	Aerie Luodrin currently dwells in Ravenshore.  She is a most dedicated student of the uses of the Sword and can instruct you to and Expert skill level with the weapon.	Expert Sword hint	Expert Sword (2)
421	"Unfortunately Jaycin Cardron, Master of the Sword, felt that his skills would be more, shall we say, ""profitable taught"" to the Dragon Hunter's of Garrote Gorge.  If you seek Master skill level with the Sword, you will have to go to him at the Garrote Gorge Dragon Hunter Camp."	Master Sword hint	Master Sword (13)
422	"Miyon Dragontracker, Grand Master of the Sword, has joined the knight, Charles Quixote in his quest to exterminate the Dragons of Garrote Gorge.  You can find Miyon at the Dragon Hunter's Fort."	Grandmaster Sword hint	Grand Master Sword (5)
423	"The Expert instructor of the Dagger, Lori Vespers, lives in the Dark Elf city of Alvar.  Seek her out there."	Expert Dagger hint	Expert Dagger (3)
424	Master Jobber can instruct students of the Dagger to Mastery.  He lives in the city of Ravenshore.	Master Dagger hint	Master Dagger (2)
425	"Karla Nirses, the Grand Master of the Dagger trains all Regnan Pirates in the uses of the Dagger.  She dwells with them on the Island of Regna as they pay her well."	Grandmaster Dagger hint	Grand Master Dagger (13)
426	"Herald Foestryke, one of Charles Quixote's finest knights, is the Expert teacher of the skills of the Axe.  He can be found at the Dragon Hunter's Camp in Garrote Gorge."	Expert Axe hint	Expert Axe (5)
427	Jasp Hunter is the Master instructor of the axe.  He can teach you the skills that will lead to Mastery of the axe.  His home is in the seaside city of Ravenshore.	Master Axe hint	Master Axe (2)
428	"Grand Master Garic Senjac, is the Grand Master teacher of the ways of the Axe.  His home is in Balthazar Lair in the Ravage Roaming region."	Grandmaster Axe hint	Grand Master Axe (7)
429	Matric Townsaver defended the city of Ravenshore against many Regnan Pirate raids.  His skill and instruction of the uses of the spear allowed the townsfolk to push the Pirates back. He can instruct you to Expert skill level with the spear.	Expert Spear hint	Expert Spear (2)
430	Ashandra Withersmythe is the Master teacher of the Spear.  Her instruction of the ways of the Spear will lead you to Mastery of the weapon.  She lives in the merchant city of Alvar.	Master Spear hint	Master Spear (3)
431	Yarrow is the Grand Master of the Spear.  Her keen eye and stalking ability have aided her in attaining this level of skill.  She uses the Spear to stalk the poisonous couatl of the jungles of the Dagger Wound Islands.	Grandmaster Spear hint	Grand Master Spear (1)
432	Shivan Keeneye is an Expert shot with the Bow.  Her teachings can lead you to an Expert skill level with this ranged weapon.  She lives in the village of Blood Drop on the Dagger Wound Islands.	Expert Bow hint	Expert Bow (1)
433	Master Oberic Nosewort teaches students of the bow in his home in Ravenshore.  If you seek Mastery of this weapon you must seek him out there.	Master Bow hint	Master Bow (2)
434	"Solis, Grand Master of the Bow, lives in the Dark Elf city of Alvar.  She can teach you Grand Mastery of the Bow."	Grandmaster Bow hint	Grand Master Bow (3)
435	Lisha Sourbrow teaches Expert uses of the Mace from her home in Ravenshore.	Expert Mace hint	Expert Mace (2)
436	"Robert Morningstar, teaches Mastery of the Mace to the knights in Garrote Gorge."	Master Mace hint	Master Mace (5)
437	"Brother Hearthsworn, the Grand Master of the Mace, retired to the peace of the Ironsand Desert, seeking tranquility among the dunes of that region.  His home is in the village of Rust."	Grandmaster Mace hint	Grand Master Mace (4)
438	"Qillain Moore used to serve the knight, Charles Quixote, but disagreed with his crusade to slay all the Dragons in the Garrote Gorge area. Moore still teaches Expert uses of the Shield from his home in the city of Alvar."	Expert Shield hint	Expert Shield (3)
439	"Sheldon Nightwood lives in the city of Twilight, beneath the Necromancers' Guild on the Shadowspire.  She can teach you Mastery of the Shield."	Master Shield hint	Master Shield (6)
440	"The knight, Peryn Reaverston, holds the title of Grand Master of the Shield.  He is currently in service to Charles Quixote and teaches knights in the proper uses of the shield.  Search him out in the Dragon Hunter's Camp in Garrote Gorge."	Grandmaster shield hint	Grand Master Shield (5)
441	The Lizardman Thadin is the Expert instructor of the use of Leather armor.  His instruction will give you an Expert skill level with this armor.  You can find him on the Island of Dagger Wound.	Expert Leather hint	Expert Leather (1)
442	"Master Shamus Hollyfield dwells in the Minotaur city, Balthazar Lair, which is located in the Ravage Roaming region.  He can teach you Mastery of Leather armor."	Master Leather hint	Master Leather (7)
443	Medwari Elmsmire makes the finest Leather armor in the realm.  She also holds the title of Grand Master of Leather Armor and can instruct you at her home in the village of Rust in the Ironsand Desert.	Grandmaster Leather hint	Grand Master Leather (4)
444	Tobren Forgewright assisted the city of Ravenshore in the First Pirate War.  Her forge glowed for four weeks straight as she made chain armor for the defenders of Ravenshore.  She still teaches Expert use of the armor from her home in the seaside port of Ravenshore.	Expert Chain hint	Expert Chain (2)
445	Halian Eversmyle learned all the skills he could from the Grand Master of Chain armor and then fled to the city of Alvar where he teaches Mastery of this armor to the Merchants of Alvar.  He will instruct you to Mastery as well.	Master Chain hint	Master Chain (13)
446	Grand Master Seline Burnkindle teaches ways of using chain armor to its greatest advantage.  She lives among the Pirates of Regna.	Grandmaster Chain hint	Grand Master Chain (3)
447	Bone teaches the Expert skills of Plate armor from his hut on Dagger Wound Island.	Expert Plate hint	Expert Plate (1)
448	Master Botham was one of the finest warriors in the First Pirate War.  Ravenshore owes him a debt of gratitude.  Botham and his fellow swordsman led the charge against the first wave of Regnans.  Their Plate armor deflected all but the most serious blows.  He still teaches Mastery of Plate armor from his home.	Master Plate hint	Master Plate (2)
449	"Seth Ironfist, Grand Master of Plate Armor, is the true force behind Charles Quixote's crusade against the Dragons of Garrote Gorge.  Without his instruction in the use of Plate armor, Quixote's knights would be mere fodder before the wrath Redreaver's Dragons."	Grandmaster Plate hint	Grand Master Plate (5)
450	"Taren Temper, fled Erathia to make a new life for himself among those who know nothing of the Temper history.  He teaches Expert skills in Fire Magic from his home in Ravenshore."	Expert Fire Magic hint	Expert Fire_Magic (2)
451	"Solomon Steele, Master of Fire, lives in the tranquil city of Alvar.  He can teach you Mastery of Fire Magic."	Master Fire Magic hint	Master Fire_Magic (7)
452	"Burn, Grand Master of Fire dwells in the oppressive heat of the Plane of Fire.  Perhaps the Gate of Fire that has appeared in the Ironsand Desert will lead you to him.  He can instruct you in Grand Mastery of Fire Magic.  "	Grandmaster Fire Magic hint	Grand Master Fire_Magic (11)
453	Reshie teaches the Expert skill of Air Magic from his home on the Dagger Wound Islands.	Expert Air Magic hint	Expert Air_Magic (1)
454	"Hollis Stormeye, Master of Air, made her home in Balthazar Lair, home of the Minotaurs.  "	Master Air Magic hint	Master Air_Magic (7)
455	"Cloud Nedlon sought to make a deal with the Lords of Air.  He left to find a way into the Plane of Air, where he thought he would learn all that remained unclear to him about the ways of Air Magic.  You will have to travel to the Plane of Air to see if he was successful."	Grandmaster Air Magic hint	Grand Master Air_Magic (9)
456	"Ulbrecht Pederton single handedly stopped the Second Pirate War.  He charged down the beach to come to Ravenshore's defense as the pirates began to land.  He manipulated the sea itself and forced the Regnan fleet back into the ocean.  Unfortunately this effort cost him the ability to use magic altogether.  He still, however, teaches the knowledge of Expert Water Magic.  He lives in Ravenshore to this day."	Expert Water Magic hint	Expert Water_Magic (2)
457	"Gregory Mist, Master of Water, makes his home in the village of Rust in the Ironsand Desert.  He claims to have a plan to use his magic to change the hot desert into a verdant green plain.  If he has the time, he can teach you Mastery of Water Magic."	Master Water Magic hint	Master Water_Magic (4)
458	Black Current was once a powerful mage in this region.  Her ambition for power outgrew her caution and she attempted to conquer the Plane of Water.  She summoned a gate to the plane and stepped through.  She was never heard from again.  She was the Grand Master of Water Magic.  If she still lives you may find her in the Plane of Water.	Grandmaster Water Magic hint	Grand Master Water_Magic (12)
459	"Ostrin Grivic, Expert instructor of Earth Magic, lives in the village of Blood Drop on the Dagger Wound Islands."	Expert Earth Magic hint	Expert Earth_Magic (1)
460	"Earth Magic Master Dorothy Sablewood helped end the First Pirate War.  With the aid of an unknown Air Mage, she erected walls of clay to keep the Regnan Pirates from leaving their boats.  She now teaches her skills from her home in Alvar."	Master Earth Magic hint	Master Earth_Magic (2)
461	Grand Master Griven passed into the Plane of Earth after teaching his final lesson to Dorothy Sablewood.  Perhaps he lives there to this day.  Who knows what transpires in an elemental plane?	Grandmaster Earth Magic hint	Grand Master Earth_Magic (10)
462	Straton Hawthorne can raise you to Expert level in the arts of Spirit Magic. He makes his home in the port city of Ravenshore.	Expert Spirit Magic hint	Expert Spirit_Magic (2)
463	"Master Bethold Kern, serves the knight Charles Quixote in his crusade against the Dragons of the Garrote Gorge region.  Search him out there at the Dragon Hunter's Camp.  If you are lucky, he will have time to instruct you in Mastery of Spirit Magic."	Master Spirit Magic hint	Master Spirit_Magic (5)
464	"Lasiter Ravensight, is the Grand Master of Spirit Magic.  He lives in the Murmurwoods close to the Temple of the Sun, where he continues his studies in to the essence of Spirit.  He can raise your skill in Spirit Magic to Grand Mastery."	Grandmaster Spirit Magic hint	Grand Master Spirit_Magic (8)
465	"Shane Krewlen, student of Mind Magic, can instruct you in the Expert skills of this arcane magic.  Seek him out in the Dark Elf city of Alvar."	Expert Mind Magic hint	Expert Mind_Magic (3)
466	"Barthine Lotts, Master of Mind Magic, dwells in the Minotaur city of Balthazar Lair in the Ravage Roaming region.  Through her instruction can gain Mastery of Mind Magic."	Master Mind Magic hint	Master Mind_Magic (7)
467	"Gilad Dreamwright, Grand Master of Mind Magic, has joined many other Grand Masters of Magic in the Murmurwoods region.  Here they work with the Temple of the Sun to further their combined skills and knowledge.  Gilad can instruct you to Grand Master skill level in Mind Magic."	Grandmaster Mind Magic hint	Grand Master Mind_Magic (8)
468	"Zevah Poised, Expert instructor of the arcane skills of Body Magic, lives with his people on the Islands of Dagger Wound in the Ifarine Sea."	Expert Body Magic hint	Expert Body_Magic (1)
469	"Tugor Arin, Master of Body Magic, practices his healing skills in the service of the knight Charles Quixote in the Garrote Gorge region.  His skills in Body Magic are put to good use healing the unfortunate young knights who are wounded in the crusade against the Dragons of Garrote Gorge."	Master Body Magic hint	Master Body_Magic (5)
470	"Grand Master Critias Snowtree, dwells in the peace of the Murmurwoods forest away from the trials and troubles of the world.  Only he can instruct you in the ways of Body Magic and raise you to Grand Mastery of this arcane skill."	Grandmaster Body Magic hint	Grand Master Body_Magic (8)
471	"Archibald Dawnsglow, Expert instructor of Light Magic, practices his arts in the city of Ravenshore on the Ifarine Sea.  His parents gave his name not knowing that it was the same name as the leader of the Erathian Necromancers' Guild.  Archibald desires to have his own name made in the Light, not in the darkness of his namesake."	Expert Light Magic hint	Expert Light_Magic (2)
472	"Master Lunius Dawnbringer, dwells among the the Clerics of Murmurwoods.He can promote you to Master of Light Magic, if you can survive the dangers of the forest."	Master Light Magic hint	Master Light_Magic (13)
473	"Aldrin Cleareye, Grand Master of the Light, makes his home on the island of Regna.  He hopes to bring an end to the Pirates evil ways.  He can instruct you to Grand Masterey, if you survive the Pirates."	Grandmaster Light Magic hint	Grand Master Light_Magic (8)
474	"Patwin Darkenmore, Expert teacher of the ways of Dark Magic, lives among the Dark Elves of Alvar.  "	Expert Dark Magic hint	Expert Dark_Magic (3)
475	"Dark Magic Master Carla Umberpool followed the travels of Sithicus Shadowrunner, Grand Master of the Dark, and makes her home with the Necromancers of Shadowspire."	Master Dark Magic hint	Master Dark_Magic (13)
476	"Sithicus Shadowrunner, Grand Master of the art of Dark Magic, and has established a home on the Island of Regna.  Here the pirate captains get her blessing on the ships before a raid.  She can instruct you in Grand Mastery of Dark Magic."	Grandmaster Dark Magic hint	Grand Master Dark_Magic (6)
477	"Kyra Sparkmen, Expert teacher of the Identify Item skill, lives in the city of Alvar.  "	Expert Identify Item hint	Expert Identify_Item (1)
478	"Eithian, Master instructor of the Identify Item skill, serves the Merchants of Alvar, and currently lives on the Dagger Wound Islands. Many travelers bring their prizes to Eithian for identification.  He may have to time to instruct you to Mastery of this skill if you travel to him."	Master Identify Item hint	Master Identify_Item (3)
479	"Elzbet Roggen, Grand Master of the Identify Item skill, lives in the Shadowspire city of Twilight.  She can teach you what is needed to achieve Grand Mastery."	Grandmaster Identify Item hint	Grand Master Identify_Item (6)
480	"Fishner Thomb, retired from service with the Merchants of Alvar and returned to his home Island of Dagger Wound in the Ifarine Sea.  Seek him out there for his teachings in the Expert way of being a Merchant."	Expert Merchant hint	Expert Merchant (1)
481	"Fenton Iverson, Master Merchant of Alvar, tests all who wish to advanced with the skills of a Merchant.  You will find Fenton in the merchant city of Alvar, where he can instruct you to Mastery of the Merchant skill."	Master Merchant	Master Merchant (3)
482	"Raven Quicktoungue, Grand Master Merchant of Alvar, dwells in the city of Ravenshore.  There, Raven can watch the interaction of numerous races as the trade with each other.  Only he can raise your knowledge to Grand Mastery of the merchant skill."	Grandmaster Merchant hint	Grand Master Merchant (2)
483	Evandar Lotts teaches the Expert skills of Repairing Items.  He dwells in the seaside city of Ravenshore.	Expert Repair Item hint	Expert Repair_Item (3)
484	"Quick Jeni, is the Master of the Repair Item skill. She lives in the village around the Dargon Hunter's Fort in Garrote Gorge."	Master Repair Item hint	Master Reapir_Item (1)
485	"Quethrin Tonk, Grand Master of the Repair Item skill, dwells in the tranquil Murmurwoods.  His skills have proven invaluable to the Temple of the Sun."	Grandmaster Repair Item hint	Grand Master Repair_Item (6)
486	"Menasaur, the strongest Lizardmen on the Dagger Wound Islands, is the Expert instructor of the Body Building skill. "	Expert Body Building hint	Expert Body_building (1)
487	"Kenneth Otterton, holds the title of Crusader, and serves under the knight Charles Quixote in Garrote Gorge.  Rumor has it that he wrestled a Dragon to the ground single-handedly.  Of course, other knights had to assist in the kill.  Kenneth also holds the title, Master Instructor of Body Building."	Master Body Building hint	Master Body_Building (5)
488	"Mikel Smithson, holds the title of Strongest in Jadame.  He is also the Grand Master of the Body Building skill.  Seek him out in the village of Rust in the Ironsand Desert if you wish to perfect the strength of your bodies."	Grandmaster Body Building hint	Grand Master Body_Building (4)
489	"Alton Putnam, is an Expert in the art of Meditation.  He can instruct you if you seek him out in the seaside city of Ravenshore."	Expert Meditation hint	Expert Meditation (2)
490	"Gretchin Nevermore, instructs all Clerics of the Sun the Master arts of Meditation. He dwells in the Murmurwoods near the Temple of the Sun."	Master Meditation hint	Master Meditation (7)
491	"Lenord Nightcrawler, Grand Master of Meditation, serves as one of the foremost members of the Necromancers' Guild of Shadowspire.  He instructs all necromancers in the art of Meditation from his home in the village of Twilight."	Grandmaster Meditation hint	Grand Master Meditation (6)
492	"Silk Nightwalker, Expert teacher of the Perception skill, makes his home in the Dark Elf city of Alvar.  Instructing the Merchants of Alvar in the skills needed to detect that which is supposed to remain secret occupies most of his time, however him may take the time to instruct you if luck is with you."	Expert Perception hint	Expert Perception (3)
493	"Helga Steeleye, lives among the necromancers of Shadowspire in the village of Twilight.  The Necromancers' Guild is thankful for her Master level instructions in the skill of Perception."	Master Perception hint	Master Perception (6)
494	"Grand Master Balan Suretrail lives in the Minotaur city of Balthazar Lair.  To gain his instruction in the skill of Perception, you must seek him out in Ravage Roaming."	Grandmaster Perception hint	Grand Master Perception (8)
495	"Kethric Tarent, teaches the Expert knowledge of Regeneration from his home in the Ironsand Desert, in the village of Rust."	Expert Regeneration hint	Expert Regeneration (4)
496	"William Sampson, Master of Regeneration, lives in the peace of the Murmurwoods.  He uses the libraries of the Temple of the Sun to further his knowledge of Trollish history."	Master Regeneration hint	Master Regeneration (7)
497	"Ush the Many Tailed, Grand Master of Regeneration and legendary warrior, lives among his people on Dagger Wound Island.  Legends say he has lost his tail thirteen times in battle against the Regnan Pirates, and each time he has grown a new tail!"	Grand Master Regeneration hint	Grand Master Regeneration
498	"Chevon Wist, teaches the Expert knowledge of the Disarm Trap skill, which has proven useful to those who explore the ruined temples near his home on the Dagger Wound Islands."	Expert Disarm Trap hint	Expert Disarm_Trap (1)
499	"Kelli Lightfingers, Master of Disarming Traps, has retired to her home in the merchant city of Alvar.  There she still teaches young merchants the skills of trapping and disarming chests.  If you are worthy she can raise your Disarm Trap skills to that of a Master."	Master Disarm Trap hint	Master Disarm_Trap (13)
500	"Gareth Lifter, Grand Master of Disarming Traps, lives on the opulent island of Regna, where he teaches his fellow pirates in the best way to trap their chests of stolen booty."	Grandmaster Disarm Trap hint	Grand Master Disarm_Trap (3)
501	Yes! Yes! An excellent idea. You are just the kind of companions I am seeking. I have heard of you and your adventures.		Infaustus NPC 472
502	"No. I am an elder vampire. To be clear, you're not worthy of me. I seek adventure, not to be your caretaker. I don't have the patience to teach you all the basics."		Infaustus NPC 472
503	"Yes, you seem worthy of my company. Very well, I will go if you will have me."		Brimstone NPC 473
504	"I think not. Now that I've had a chance to look at you, it is clear that you are not worthy of my company. I seek a group of greater renown."		Brimstone NPC 473
505	"I must say I find the idea appealing. Hmmm, yes! The taste of the open road is just what I need. I have been long at this business of dragon slaying, and I must say it grows stale. A man must keep himself interested. I will go with you if you like."		Tempus NPC 476
506		Grandmaster of Unarmed Combat Hint	Grand Master Unarmed
507	"Tessa Maker, Expert in Monster Identification, seeks to improve her skills by cataloging the different Dragons of Garrote Gorge.  She is currently in the service of the knight, Charles Quixote."	Expert Identify Monster hint	Expert Identify_Monster (5)
508	"Matric Keenedge, Master of the skill of Identify Monster, is currently studying the creatures of the Murmurwoods.  If you seek Mastery of this skill you need to seek him out there."	Master Identify Monster hint	Master Identify_Monster (7)
509	"Blacken Stonecleaver, Grand Master of Monster Identification, has seen every creature on the continent of Jadame.  He can teach you his knowledge if you find his home in the city of Ravenshore."	Grandmaster Identify Monster Hint	Grand Master Identify_Monster (2)
510	"Knight Norbert Slayer, instructs all of Charles Quixote's knights in the Expert forms of  Armsmastery.  If you travel to Garrote Gorge, you can attend one of his teachings."	Expert Armsmaster hint	Expert Armsmaster (5)
511	"Lasatin the Scarred, Master of the Armsmaster skill, lives on the Islands of Dagger Wound."	Master Armsmater hint	Master Armsmaster (1)
512	"Jasper Steelcoif, Grand Master of the Armsmaster skill, is one of the leaders of the Regnan Pirate Council.  He instructs all pirates in the use of weapons.  If you are brave enough to travel to Regna--and survive his instruction--you too, will have Grand Mastery of this skill."	Grandmaster Armsmaster hint	Grand Master Armsmaster (13)
513	"You must be joking! I am a rightly famous knight. Why would I want to travel with such riff-raff as yourselves? Oh, it might be fun after a fashion, but I do have my reputation to think of."		Tempus NPC 476
514	"Yes! That sounds great. From what I hear of your adventures you have a chance to know greatness. With my help, we could make that chance a certainty. Well, shall we? I'm always looking for a chance to add to my legend!"		Thorne Understone NPC 477
515	Join you? Ho-ho. What an amusing idea. Why would the great Thorne Understone travel with the likes of you?		Thorne Understone NPC 477
516	"Tabitha Watershed, Expert Alchemist, teaches the skills of potions and poultices from her home in the merchant city of Alvar."	Expert Alchemy hint	Expert Alchemy (3)
517	"Kethry Treasurestone, Master Alchemist, lives in the Murmurwoods, studying plants and mushrooms that grow in that peaceful forest."	Master Alchemy hint	Master Alchemy (7)
518	"Ich, Grand Master of Alchemy, has studied the art of brewing for decades.  He knows all there is to know about blending reagents into beneficial and harmful potions.  Seek out his home in the lush jungles of the Dagger Wound Islands."	Grandmaster Alchemy hint	Grand Master Alchemy (1)
519	"Petra Mithrit, Expert in the skill of Learning, dwells near the Temple of the Sun in the Murmurwoods."	Expert Learning hint	Expert Learning (7)
520	"Garret Mistspring, Master of Learning, instructs all students of necromancy in the art of Learning.  For this the Necromancers' Guild rewards him well.  His home is in the hamlet of Twilight at the base of the Shadowspire."	Master Learning hint	Master Learning (6)
521	"Wanda Lightsworn, Grand Master of Learning, is in the hire of Charles Quixote, and instructs all of his knights in the skills of Learning.  It is the hope of Charles Quixote that this will give his forces and edge in battle against the Dragons of Garrote Gorge."	Grandmaster Learning hint	Grand Master Learning (5)
522	"Flynn Shador, Expert Vampire, lives in the city of Twilight, serving as eyes and a safe house for any Vampires that travel to that region.  He can instruct you in the Expert abilities of a Vampire."	Expert Vampire hint	Expert Vampire (2)
523	"Douglas Dirthmoore, Master Vampire, will teach any whose skills measure up to his standards.  Once he is done with you, you will have Mastered the abilities native to all Vampires.  His home is in the Shadowspire village of Twilight."	Master Vampire hint	Master Vampire (6)
524	"Though no one knows for sure, Payge Arachnia, Grand Master Vampire, is rumored to be the first Vampire on the continent of Jadame. She knows all there is to be known about living as a Vampire and can teach you the Grand Master abilities she possesses.  Seek out her lair in Shadowspire."	Grand Master Vampire (6)	Grand Master Vampire (6)
525	"Fedwin Dervish, can instruct you in the Expert ways of the Dark Elf.  Once you have learned from him, you will have begun a great journey to becoming a leader of your people.  Search him out in the Dark Elf city of Alvar."	Expert Dark Elf	Expert Dark Elf (3)
526	"Lanshee Caverhill, Master Merchant of Alvar currently lives in the seaside port of Ravenshore.  She knows all about Mastering the natural abilities all Dark Elves have."	Master Dark Elf (2)	Master Dark Elf (2)
527	"Ton Agraynel, Master Merchant of Alvar, can instruct you in the Grand Master skills of a Dark Elf.  You will have to prove yourself worthy of his instruction, but the benefits are well worth the effort."	Grand Master Dark Elf (3)	Grand Master Dark Elf (3)
528	"Ishton, Junior Flight Leader of the Dragons of Garrote Gorge, instructs all young Dragons to an Expert skill level with their racial Dragon abilities.  He dwells here, in the Dragon Caves of Garrote Gorge."	Expert Dragon	Expert Dragon
529	"Master Dragon Erthint is the Flight Leader of all of the Dragons that serve under Deftclaw Redreaver, and can instruct a Dragon in Mastery of his natural Dragon abilities. Erthint lives in the Dragon Caves of Garrote Gorge."	Master Dragon (5)	Master Dragon (5)
530	"Klain Scarwing, is second in strength only to Deftclaw Redreaver himself.  Klain holds the title of Grand Master Dragon and instructs all Dragons in the use of their natural abilities.  See him if you wish to attain Grand Master status.  He dwells here in the Dragon Caves of Garrote Gorge."	Grand Master Dragon (5)	Grand Master Dragon (5)
531	The Cleric sent you back with the Gem of Restoration?  I am free of this place!  Search me out if you wish for me to ever travel with you!  It would be my pleasure to join you in your journeys!  I will wait for you at the Adventurer's Inn in Ravenshore.	Blazen Stormlance	
532	You have not slain all of the vermin.  I have reports here that tell of Dragons still in the region.  Return when you have slain them all!	James	
533	You have not slain all of the Dragon hunters.  A Flight returned just moments ago and reported seeing them out on the plains.  Return when you have slain them all!	James	
534	"Here's your weapon. If you find more ore, I'll be happy to make you more weapons."		
535	"You need ore for me to create weapons.  The better the ore, the better the weapon I can make."		
536	"Here's your armor. If you find more ore, I'll be happy to make you more armor."		
537	"You need ore for me to create armor.  The better the ore, the better the armor I can make."		
538	"Here is your item. If you find more ore, I'll be happy to make you more items."		
539	"You need ore for me to create items.  The better the ore, the better the items I can make."		
540	"To be declared Arcomage Champion, you must win a game of Arcomage in every tavern on, in, and under the continent of Jadame.  There are 11 such taverns sponsoring Arcomage events.  When you have accomplished this, return to me to claim the prize."		
541	"You must claim a victory at ALL 11 taverns.  Until you do, you cannot be declared Arcomage Champion."		
542	Congratulations!  You have become the Arcomage Champion!  The prize is waiting in the chest right outside my house.		
543	"Ah, ""adventure."" Surely I have not had enough of it recently. Since our war with the Frost Giants, I have done little but train young warriors. Say, you wouldn't happen to want a traveling companion? Perhaps I could come with you. I have many skills you might find useful, and I swing a deadly axe!"		Ulbrecht NPC 478
544	"Yes, adventure is a fine thing. Why I have had several. In fact, let me tell you about the time I….Say, it just occurred to me you are suggesting I adventure with you! A nice offer, but well…how can I say this politely? You're just not seasoned enough. I'm afraid I would grow bored with the kinds of challenges you are ready to face."		Ulbrecht NPC 478
545	"Ah, you suggest I come along with you to see the land for myself. An excellent suggestion. I am certainly well rested enough! Very well, I am ready to travel if you will take me."		Artorius Veritas NPC 480
546	"Though I may not look it after my long sleep, know that you speak with one of the greatest vampires alive today. Go with you? I think not. Your inexperience would make you more of a hindrance to me than anything. I would do better on my own."		Artorius Veritas NPC 480
547	Join you! Ha! I admire your audacity. Yes…admire it a great deal. Very well. You have my respect. I will go with you.		Duroth NPC 481
548	Join you? What a fool's notion. I already travel with a certain number of fleas. I don't need any more parasites. Be gone!		Duroth NPC 481
549	"The Grandmaster teacher in the ways of Body Magic, Tempus, can be found in the elven territory of Avlee.  His home is on an island somewhere in the central bay."	Grandmaster Body Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
550	"I am pleased with these Ironfists and their sage, Xanthor. Though we have never worked together directly, their work in Enroth and Erathia against the Necromancers' Guild and the devils have clearly marked them as servants of The Light. I have full faith in their plans for saving us from the crisis."		Oskar Tyre NPC 67
551	The Sun Temple has had much time to study the gateway which appeared in Murmurwoods. I am positive it leads to the Plane of Air. On several occasions my brothers have seen air spirits around the gateway. Some of the braver have peered through it and have reported seeing a whirling realm of clouds.		Oskar Tyre NPC 67
552	"As a Priest of the Light, I have my own ideas about the source of the crisis. I am positive that either the Temple of the Moon or the Necromancers' Guild is somehow involved. Great Light! What if they've banded together? What a horrid thought."		Oskar Tyre NPC 67
553	"I'm not sure you can trust the words of this so called, ""Destroyer."" Certainly he is not the Destroyer of scripture. And all this talk of Kreegans and men living on many worlds. It flies in the face of the Truth my temple has shepherded from the beginning of time!"		Oskar Tyre NPC 67
554	"It is good to have you with us, Heroes of Jadame. Know that the Temple of the Sun also considers you servants of the Light. You are always welcome among us."		Oskar Tyre NPC 67
555	"I wish my first visit to Ravenshore was made under better circumstances. This town has a lot to offer and I wish I had time to explore it more. On the bright side, this merchant house has a great library. Have you seen it?"		Masul NPC 68
556	"The Regnans have built and outpost on one of the Dagger Wound Islands. We fear they may attack Ravenshore. If this happens, we will evacuate the city. We will return once the garrison has rid Ravenshore of pirates."		Masul NPC 68
557	"When I became herd leader, I never expected my reign would be so full of rich experience. Certainly I never thought I'd meet anyone like Queen Catherine! Did you know that until she abdicated her rule in Erathia, she was ruler of both it and Enroth?"		Masul NPC 68
558	"As you know, the gateway leading to the Plane of Water appeared near Balthazar Lair in Ravage Roaming. It lies in the middle of the lake created by the great flood that poured forth from it."		Masul NPC 68
559	"You may have difficulty finding supplies in the lands beyond the crystal. When I left Balthazar Lair, I brought with me a quantity of the iron rations carried by my armies on campaign. Here, take what I have. They are light and nourishing. I hope you find them useful."		Masul NPC 68
560	"Why if the imprisonment of the elemental lords is what started this crisis, then surely releasing them is the way to end it! They are beings of almost unimaginable power. Once freed of the Destroyer's control, they would be able to set things right again. This must be what the prophecy speaks of!"		Masul NPC 68
561	"It cannot be said enough. My herd as well as all the beings of Jadame are forever in your debt. Thanks to your good work here and in the planes, Balthazar Lair can once again know greatness. You and your comrades are welcome here any time you wish to visit. A blessing on you all!"		Masul NPC 68
562	"I can't help feeling that I could be doing better work elsewhere. I'm sure Thant can handle operation of the guild in my absence, but still, sitting here on my hands while we are at war with the Sun Temple tries my patience. You really must be quicker about your duties!"		Sandro NPC 69
563	"When one thinks of the Regnans, the phrase ""masters of magic"" doesn't normally come to mind. But I caution you, the Regnan pirates have held their island for many centuries. They have had much time to both acquire and study arcane knowledge. Some powerful magicians live there. If you must face them in combat, be prepared for anything."		Sandro NPC 69
564	"It is not true that we of the Necromancers' Guild do not respect mages of other schools. That they have chosen paths leading to lesser powers is of their own concerns. This Xanthor is formidable for a wizard not of the Dark Path. As much as is possible, I find his advise, passably worthy."		Sandro NPC 69
565	"I have learned that the Dark Dwarves of Alvar hold an item I have long coveted, but may be of particular use to you if you when you travel among the elemental planes. The Ring of Planes conveys upon its wearer powerful wards against damaging spells of earth, water, air, and fire."		Sandro NPC 69
566	"In my studies I have learned something of this Plane Between Planes. It is written that its denizens are not born in the normal fashion. I have heard that creatures can be found there which manifest the energies of the nightmare dreams of humankind. I have little more information, but I imagine such a creature would be both powerful and malevolent."		Sandro NPC 69
567	"A basic fact of magic is that Fire opposes Water, and Air opposes Earth. Within these parings, the one element has weaknesses regarding its opposite element. I expect the Destroyer exploits this principle in the construction of his prisons."		Sandro NPC 69
568	"I know I speak for the guild when I say we owe you a debt of gratitude. I discharge this debt by granting you and your companions safe passage through all lands under our control. No guild member will kidnap you for arcane experimentation, nor will any member consider you feed for his servants, living or otherwise. This guild edict will be in effect for a period of one year from today.And of course, you have my personal, thanks."		Sandro NPC 69
569	The master is not here at present. He went to consult with Elgar Fellmoon at the council chamber. Perhaps you will find him there.		XANTHOR's LACKEY NPC 77
570	"The crystal placed by the Destroyer in the town square serves two functions. One, if we do nothing, it will destroy the world. Two, it acts as a gateway to another realm of existence--the Plane Between Planes--where the Destroyer most certainly has his base.The crystal calls forth the elemental forces into our world and draws them to it. When these forces meet here at the crystal, the world will be destroyed in cataclysm. If we are to prevent this someone will have to use the crystal as a gateway to reach the Destroyer and either convince him to end his assault, or eliminate him."		XANTHOR's LACKEY NPC 77
571	"Since the crystal is attuned to the elemental forces, it will only pass through those who are themselves so attuned. I believe it is possible to create a key that will simulate attunement for a small group such as yourselves. I can make the key, but require components of pure elemental forces to do so.Such components exist in only one form that I know of. On each of the four elemental planes, you will find gemstones called the ""elemental hearts."" Bring these to me and I will build the key to open the crystal gateway."	XANTHOR NPC 23	XANTHOR's LACKEY NPC 77
572	"To go through the crystal gateway and confront the Destroyer, you need the key I must build! To build this key, I need the elemental heart gemstones from the four elemental planes! Go and get these for me!"		XANTHOR NPC 23
573	"I am glad that you have had some measure of success in retrieving the elemental hearts, but what you have is not enough. I need one from each of the four elemental planes before I can build the key to the crystal gateway. Bring me the rest of the hearts so we can proceed."		XANTHOR NPC 23
574	"Something about this crystal seems to put a compulsion on the denizens of the elemental planes. Why else would they make war on our plane? I have heard yours and other first hand reports. It seems almost as if these elementals are driven by a madness.And madness it is! For destroying Enroth would create a mighty planar unbalance which would certainly victimize their own planes. They might even conceivably be themselves destroyed in the cataclysm. At the very least, they risk changing the nature of their own planes. I cannot see how such change could possibly be for the better!"		XANTHOR NPC 23
575	"That the elemental lords are imprisoned on the Plane Between Planes explains much. I had wondered why the denizens of the Earth, Air, Water, and Fire Planes have become so hostile. Usually, they are content to keep to their own place in the order. I suppose it was necessary for the Destroyer to take the lords from their homelands. Without the lords calming presence, it would be much easier for him to compel the elementals as he has.It is important for you to free the elemental lords. They can restore order to their planes and prevent the cataclysm!"	XANTHOR NPC 23	XANTHOR NPC 23
576	"Yes, I have heard the name, ""Escaton."" He is variously called in the legends of many cultures. I know not his nature, but it is his purpose to destroy worlds.Yes, ""worlds,"" I say. More and more evidence points to the conclusion that Enroth is not the only place in this universe where there is life. Tales from before the Silence speak of many living among the stars. Yes, it sounds impossible to think that one could live on a light in the sky, but consider that these stars may be like our sun. If this is so, then why can't these suns shine on other places like Enroth? If this was the case, then there could be a ""destroyer of worlds."" I believe that this is what we face."	XANTHOR NPC 23	XANTHOR NPC 23
577	"No, I don't think I will be leaving when the Ironfists continue their journey back to Enroth. Perhaps I will join with them in some years, but for now, I find myself fascinated by these lands. Though it is destroyed, I would study the remains of the crystal gateway. Never in my knowledge has there been in this world an artifact of comparable power. Perhaps I will find some use for the crystal shards?No matter. Regardless, when the Ironfists go, they will go without me."	XANTHOR NPC 23	XANTHOR NPC 23
578	"Without false modesty I must say that the Nightshade Brazier is the greatest creation of my dark arts. When its fires are properly tended, the accursed sun is incapable of shining within its area of influence. The soothing shadow of night takes up permanent residence over a vast region. Within these boundaries, vampires and other night creatures know freedoms they would not otherwise know. We are free of the crypts with no worries of the destroying light of day!And now the Temple of the Sun has taken my prize. It must be retrieved!"	XANTHOR NPC 23	XANTHOR NPC 23
579	"I am Escaton the Destroyer also called ""Devil's Doom,"" ""The Spider in the Web Gate"" and ""Ruin."" There are places where I am worshiped as a god. But to myself I think of myself only as a servant to my greater masters.Know too that I have brought the cataclysm to your world, which must be destroyed. It is a doom you have brought on yourselves by failing to eliminate the devil Kreegans from your realms. "	Thant NPC 10	XANTHOR NPC 23
580	My masters are those who created me. They gave me form and function. I have thus proven indestructible. I destroy worlds infested by Kreegans.		Escaton
581	On your world they speak of a Silence which has lasted for a thousand years and more. I am old beyond that and my masters are ancient to me.		Escaton
582	There are more worlds than yours--a myriad of them. These worlds were once held in a great web whose threads could be traversed like bridges over rivers. What you call the Silence was marked by the breaking of the web which was built by my masters.		Escaton
583	"At one time my ancient masters were caretakers of more worlds than there are apples in a bushel. Before the Kreegans--before the Silence--they were worlds of wonder. My masters were kings and queens of a golden civilization. I was made, not because I was needed, but because I could be made--a protector of that which needed no protection...a symbol of might to a mighty people.But now, and for a millennium, the Kreegan blight has eaten away the splendor of the worlds. And so have my masters fallen. They are warlords and generals, and I am their greatest soldier."		Escaton
584	"Your world will be destroyed by the elemental forces that created it. The crystal in Jadame's central city compels those who live on the elemental planes to open their worlds onto yours. When their worlds meet at the crystal, the reaction will unleash irrepressible destruction across the lands, sky and sea. All things living will live no longer."		Escaton
585	"The cataclysm was brought into being when I performed the ritual Convocation of Cataclysm which brought into being the crystal. It is a weapon of last resort created by my masters to defend themselves against the Kreegans.I do have other weapons. But when I became aware of the Kreegans infestation on your world, I deemed the use of ultimate force necessary. Your world has fallen so far--it seemed certain you would not be able to defend yourselves against my enemies. Though I underestimated your abilities, and the Kreegans were ultimately destroyed, I still feel that I was right to err on the side of caution."		Escaton
586	"My masters, afraid the Kreegans would learn ways to corrupt me, have made me incorruptible. I am unable to undo the Convocation of Cataclysm once it has been performed. This command of theirs is part of my very being. I am powerless but to obey."		Escaton
587	"The Convocation of Cataclysm, as powerful as it is, cannot of itself destroy a world. Each of the elemental planes is ruled by a lord. These lords can fight the compulsion placed on their lesser subjects. For this reason, I have removed the lords from their realms. They are my ""guests"" for the time being.Once the cataclysm has run its course, I will return them so that they might rebuild your realm and theirs."		Escaton
588	"In the time since the Silence, your world has lost knowledge of the Kreegan's origin. That they resemble the devils of myth has been enough for you, and indeed, ""devils"" is what most call them. The truth is they came from the beyond. Before they attacked us, my masters had no knowledge of them.The Kreegans infest our worlds and spread if they can. It would seem in an endless universe that they could expand in another direction than ours. But they have not made this choice so we must defend ourselves from them."	Escaton	Escaton
589	"I am aware that the king and queen of Enroth have rid your world of Kreegans. Still, your world is to be destroyed. Once I am called, I must perform the Convocation. Once the Convocation is begun, it must continue.I was called while Kreegan still lived on your world. It matters not that they were dust by the time I arrived."	Escaton	Escaton
590	"If it were not for the Kreegans and the state of war they impose, my masters could rebuild the Web of Worlds and lift what you call ""The Silence."" My masters have attempted to rebuild the Web many times, but the Kreegans always destroy it. Now they have concluded that the Kreegans must be entirely eliminated or the golden civilization will never rise again. It is to fulfill this purpose that I have been created."		Escaton
591	"As far as I'm able to feel such, I am amazed that your world was able to eliminate its Kreegan infestation. They are quite a bit more…advanced than you. The king and queen of Enroth must be strategists of the highest order. Too bad that they were not able to finish their task sooner.If I could regret, I would regret having to needlessly annihilate your world."		Escaton
592	"Yes, your world does need saving! The cataclysm, if not stopped, will destroy it utterly.A quandary for you: I, as bringer of the cataclysm know how it can be ended. Further, I acknowledge that since there are no longer Kreegans on your world it need not be destroyed. But, as servant to my masters, I am compelled to let the cataclysm continue by not divulging my knowledge to you.Still I will ask you some questions. Perhaps there is something for you in the answers?"	Escaton	Escaton
593	"Though I must destroy your world, what I need do I have already done. Until the cataclysm has culminated, there is nothing to stop me from indulging you with my conversation. This cannot continue forever. Nothing does.Sometimes questions create more questions. Sometimes they provide answers. I wonder what my questions will provide you?"	Escaton	Escaton
594	"My masters have made me a holder, and not a giver, of knowledge. Still perhaps you have given yourself knowledge through my questions? I have given you all the questions I will, so you must look at what you have. Perhaps you should question the answers.A ""prison"" implies a prisoner. Who? ""Inside?"" Inside of what? And ""egg."" What kind of egg? A bird's egg? Perhaps something like an egg?"	Escaton	Escaton
595	"Where does one serve to pay,  Is not free to leave,  But is free when one leaves?"	Escaton	Escaton
596	Yes. Your answer seems to fit the riddle nicely. Perhaps that is the correct answer.		Escaton
597	That doesn't seem right at all.		Escaton
598	"Jails, prisons and cells come in many forms. We hear of so called ""prisons of the mind."" But I wonder. The riddle seems to speak of a physical prison. What think you?"		Escaton
599	"What is there when  You enter a room,  And cannot be outside,  Though you leave the door open?"		Escaton
600	"The vagaries of language are many. Still, your answer seems to apply well to the question."		Escaton
601	"I suppose that could work…no, on second thought, it seems entirely wrong."		Escaton
602	Inside. Inside what? And what is inside? And while we're asking...why?		Escaton
603	"A moon colored box  meant to be opened from the inside  protects the sun colored  treasure of life.  What is it?"		Escaton
604	"What else indeed could the answer be? I'm sure if one were to apply some thought, one could think of something. Still in these matters, it is best to have confidence in one's clearest thought. I suppose your answer could be correct."		Escaton
605	I don't see how that could be the answer. Really I can't.		Escaton
606	"""Egg,"" yes. or perhaps, ""eggs."" Eggs are a source of life, a seed of sorts. They are also of an unusual shape not found in many places elsewhere. Perhaps placing the answer in context will give a clue or some direction."		Escaton
607	"I would judge that you've answered the riddles correctly. I suppose in asking them to you I have in some way helped you. As far as I and my nature are concerned, this is sufficient.As a reward for your performance, take this small bauble. I have more than one and therefore, more than I require. And see? I can give it to you because I don't know you have the knowledge to use it."		Escaton
608	"Thank you for releasing me. I go now to restore order to my realm and to do what I can for yours. Know that Shalwend, Lord of Air, holds you in his favor. Farewell."		Shalwend
609	"""The Destroyer"" is a fitting moniker for one who would imprison me in such a fashion. If it were not for you, I, Acwalander, Lord of Water, would have soon perished. My passing would have had an unbalancing effect across all the planes. Thank you. I go now to set things right."		Acwalander
610	"I am free! Now will he who was fool enough to jail me--this Destroyer--feel my wrath. That I, the Lord of Earth, am called ""Gralkor the Cruel"" is no mistake. The suffering I have felt will be his returned in multitudes!"		Gralkor
611	"Free at last. My torment is over, but what of my subjects? I know the Destroyer has them compelled to a terrible task. My presence will sooth them. I must go. I must…farewell…"		Pyrannaste
612	No! Someone must remain here to guard the lair against the barbarian raiders. Come back after you've helped my herd. I may consider joining you then.		Thanys
613	"There are many predators who would take advantage of the lair in this vulnerable time. I've already driven off looters…and worse. One of Zog's patrols stopped by soon after the flood. I fought them off, but some escaped. I am sure they will be back in greater numbers."		Thanys
614	"I have no more rations to give. If you need more, you'll have to find food elsewhere."		Masul NPC 68
615	"What with the damage caused by giant waves, falling rocks and the pirate raid, I don't know if our village will ever be the same. I know you have done great things for us, but not everything can be fixed once broken. I'm not sure what we'll do. Perhaps we will rebuild, or maybe we'll leave. Time and circumstance will decide."		Brekish Onefang NPC 1
616	"Good work dealing with those pirates. Now that they're gone, maybe Chief Onefang and his people can rebuild their lives. It really is a travesty what has happened here."		Dadeross
617	"Sadly, the caravan was one of the first things the pirates looted in their raids. I have no idea what they're going to do with three-hundred cases of tobersk fruit! Naturally, I miss the fruit, but the worst of it is the damage they did to the carts. It looks like I'll be here for at least the next season overseeing their repair. I just hope the task is done before the next tobersk harvest so I can see some return out of this profitless venture."		Dadeross
618	You are indeed earning your way to this months bounty but have not yet reached the number of kills needed!		Bounty Hunter
619	"Yellow Fever is a very crippling disease that pops up every few years.  Usually we arrange for medicine from the mainland, but now that the bridges are destroyed, no one can make it to the docks!"		James
620	"Here, take these scrolls of Cure Disease.  Maybe we can at least prevent an epidemic!  The six huts on the outer islands are infected.  If the teleporters between the islands are repaired, you can take these scrolls to the huts.  Unfortunately you will have to find three more scrolls in your travels."		James
621	The Yellow Fever epidemic is over!  Thank you for your help!		James
622	"I hear that Yellow Fever is once again spreading through the people.  Usually the water supply here on the main island is the primary source of the disease.  We used to get an Anointed Herb Potion from the mainland when the disease popped up.  Without access to the dock however, we cannot get this needed cure.  If you find a way to the mainland, perhaps the smugglers of Ravenshore have the cure.  If you can procure the Anointed Potion, return to me with it!"		James
623	Thank you!  I will go introduce this to the water supply!		James
624	Perhaps you can bring me the basic ingredients for a Potion of Pure speed?  With them I can make this incredible potion and finish my studies in alchemy!  I will reward you well for your assistance!		James
625	"The Guild of Bounty Hunters serves the public by paying qualified individuals a fee for eliminating the threat of certain creatures or bandits in the realm of Jadame.  To achieve the rank of Novice Bounty Hunter you will have to earn 10,000 gold worth of bounties."		James
626	The ingredients!  Thank you!  Take this as a reward!		James
627	I believe I may know how to stop the destructive force of the mountain of fire!  I have found an ancient spell that should give me the power to send the mountain of fire back into the sea! To complete the spell I need an ancient relic called the Idol of the Snake.  With this item of power I should be able to complete the spell.		James
628	"Thank you for returning with the Idol.  Upon further study I discovered that the entire spell was useless.  Still, this is not your fault and you deserve some reward for returning to me!"		James
629	"The packs of Dire Wolves that roam this region are a threat to travelers and commerce.  The Merchants of Alvar have instructed me to hire competent people to hunt down these wolves and to ""thin the pack"" in their words.  You look like skilled adventurers!  I will reward you well if you can eliminate the entire pack and those in their lair."		James
630	I pay 250 gold for every intact Dire Wolf Pelt that you return to me.		James
631	The pack has been wiped out? Excellent!  Of course I will need to find a new business for myself.  Thank you for your efforts.  Please take this reward.		James
632	"The Merchants of Alvar took my family into what they termed ""protective custody"" and use this as the means to secure my services. However as the caravan with my family was returning to Alvar, they were attacked by Ogres and bandits.  The Ogre Zog, took my family from them!  He took them to his fortress in the Alvar region.  Now, I am to spy on the Merchants of Alvar for him.  As long as I do so, my family lives.  If I stop, they die.  Can you rescue them for me?"		James 
633	"I send periodic reports of the activities of the Merchants of Alvar to the Dread Pirate Stanley in the tavern, The Pirate's Rest on the Island of Regna. Now that the Merchants have ""bargained"" for my assistance, we must deliver a false set of reports to keep Stanley from being suspicious.  Take this report to him in Harecksburg on the island of Regna!"		James
634	You delivered the report to Stanley?  This is will at least buy us sometime before he becomes suspicious of the activities here in Ravenshore and those of the Merchants in Alvar.		James
635	"I hear that you are looking for an Anointed Herb potion to purify the water supply.  The Smugglers of Jadame deal with all kind of strange goods.  If anyone would know about or have this anointed herb potion, it would be them!"		James
636	"The Dark Elves of Alvar pay well for leather made from Naga Hides. Once treated and tanned, the Naga Hides can last almost longer than a Dark Elf's lifetime! "		James
637	I will pay you 500 gold for each Naga Hide you bring.		James
638	"Many decades ago, the legendary Priest of the Sun, Camien Thryce, led a crusade against the Necromancers' Guild in Shadowspire.  The Guild was able to defeat Thryce's forces with the aid of the Vampires that also dwell in the Shadowspire region.  Camien Thryce carried with him the clerical artifact called Eclipse with him into battle.  The shield was lost when Thryce was struck down by a Nosferatu in the final battle."		James
639	"You have recovered the shield, Eclipse?  The Temple is grateful for you help in recovering this potent artifact.  Please, continue to carry the shield with our blessing."		James
640	Have you rescued my family?  I cannot guarantee that I will continue to provide my services unless they are safe!		James
641			James
642			James
643	"The forces of the Ogre Mage, Zog moved into this area right around the time that the bright flash traveled across the night sky.  They harass and even kill travelers who seek to reach the city of Alvar. It would be of great service to Alvar if you were to eliminate all of the Ogres that harass the roads to Alvar and the Ogres in the fortress near the city of Alvar.  Return to me when you have killed all of the ogres in this region, and I will reward you."		James
644	You have not defeated all of the Ogres!  The roads will not be safe until they are destroyed!		James
645	"Excellent!  Now that the Ogres are cleared from the roads and no longer inhabit the fortress, the roads to Ravenshore, Ironsand and Murmurwoods are safe again!  Please take this 5000 gold as reward!"		James
646	A Potion of Pure Luck would be of great assistance to any merchant.  One could stumble upon any number of great deals if his Luck was at its highest!  Bring me the basic ingredients for a Potion of Pure Luck and I will reward you well!		James
647	"Greetings Novice Bounty Hunter! The Guild of Bounty Hunters serves the public by paying qualified individuals a fee for eliminating the threat of certain creatures or bandits in the realm of Jadame.  To achieve the rank of Journeyman Bounty Hunter you will have to earn a total bounty of 30,000 gold."		James
648	Excellent!  With this I can brew another Potion of Pure Luck.  Take this potion as your reward!		James
649	"Wasp stingers!  From cold remedies to herbal teas, a little bit of ground wasp stinger goes a long way!  Don't trust those who sell that weak ground wyvern horn!  Only wasp stinger will do if you want the best!  I'll pay you for every stinger you bring me!"		James
650	I pay 500 gold for every wasp stinger you bring me!		James
651	"Trolls have a natural fear of fire!  Many of us perished when the Gate of Fire opened and spilled out the lake of fire! Without appropriate protection, there was nothing we could do."		James
652	The survivors in this region need Potions of Fire Resistance!  With them we can survive until a place is found for us to move to!  Take these potions!  Unfortunately they are all I have!  Deliver them to the six southernmost houses that remain standing in the village of Rust!		James
653	You have not delivered Potions of Fire Resistance to all of the houses!  If the lake of fire grows in size everyone will perish!		James
654	"You have at least pushed our demise away for a time, but a new home needs to be found for us!  Thank you for delivering the Potions of Fire Resistance!"		James
655	"Endurance.  That ability which keeps a warrior on his feet, or lets him down gently as he slides into unconsciousness.  A Potion of Pure Endurance can boost a person's ability to take damage to a legendary strength!  Bring me the basic ingredients of a Potion of Pure Endurance and I will reward you well."		James
656	"Greetings Journeyman Bounty Hunter! The Guild of Bounty Hunters serves the public by paying qualified individuals a fee for eliminating the threat of certain creatures or bandits in the realm of Jadame.  To achieve the rank of Master Bounty Hunter you will have to earn a total bounty of 70,000 gold."		James
657	You have brought me the ingredients as asked!  I am indeed grateful.  Takes this potion as your reward.		James
658	The Dragonbane Flower has many medicinal uses.  It also has some uses that are less than medicinal.  From this flower we can distill a poison that is deadly to Dragons.  With it we should be able to make quick work of the Dragon vermin that infest this region.  Find this flower and return to me with it.  You will not be disappointed by my reward.		James
659	I asked for the Dragonbane Flower and you return empty handed.  Why waste my time?		James
660	"Yes, this is indeed the Dragonbane Flower.  Once we have distilled the poison, we will wipe the Dragon population out!"		James
661	"The Dragonbane Flower has many medicinal uses.  It also has some uses that are less than medicinal.  From this flower a poison is made that is deadly to dragons, but the poison's antidote is also found in its petals. Find this flower and return to me with it.  You will not be disappointed by my reward."		James
662	I asked for the Dragonbane Flower and you return empty handed.  Why waste my time?		James
663	"Yes, this is indeed the Dragonbane Flower.  Once the petals are ingested we will be protected from the poison that the Dragon Hunter's would use against us.  "		James
664	"You seek to gain the favor of Charles Quixote?  Help us in his crusade against the Dragons of Garrote Gorge. If all of the Dragons in the region and in the Dragon Cave are slain, Charles Quixote will be sure to hear of your name! Return to me when they are all dead!  I will reward you well."		James
665	You have slain the vermin!  Here is the reward that I promised!  I will also personally mention your assistance to Charles Quixote!		James
666	"You seek the favor of Deftclaw Redreaver?  Don't we all?  If you were to kill all of the Dragon hunters in the Garrote Gorge wilderness, I would be certain to mention you to him.  I would also be in the position to offer you a generous reward!"		James
667	The infernal dragon hunters of Charles Quixote are dead? Fantastic!  We can once again enjoy the peace of Garrote Gorge without fear.  Here is your promised reward!  I will go speak with Deftclaw Redreaver of your bravery this instant!		James
668	The Drum of Victory needs to be recovered if we are to ever defeat the Dragons in this region.  If you were to recover the Drum I would reward you well!		James
669	"The Drum of Victory was brought here by Charles Quixote.  Its deafening sound drives terror into the heart of any Dragon who hears it.  Unfortunately is was lost in a battle against the Nagas when Charles Quixote was trying to establish his keep, here in Garrote Gorge."		James
670	You have returned with the Drum of Victory!  Charles will be grateful for its return!  Here is your promised reward.		James
671	"For years the Guild of Necromancers has searched for the Bone of Doom.  The powerful artifact would be of great use to them if recovered.  If you were to find this item and bring it to me, you will be rewarded beyond your wildest dreams."		James
672	"In times almost forgotten a powerful Necromancer named Zacharia almost dominated all of Jadame.  His mastery of the dark arts of necromancy and the elemental magics were combined with an unnaturally strong afinity for Dark energy. His legions of undead helped him enslave all peoples, including the Dark Elves of Alvar.  A plan was made by the Temple of the Sun to defeat Zacharia.  Utilizing the combined might of all of the Clerics in the Temple they forged the sword named Solkrist.  The Patriarch of the Temple led the legions of the Sun against the forces of Zacharia.  The battle raged for years after which the forces of the Temple of the Sun found themselves at the base of the dreaded Shadowspire.  There the Patriarch battled Zarcharia in single combat. At the end of the battle both the Patriarch and Zacharia lay dead.  The Patriarch had cut the left arm from Zacharia's body just as the Necromancer's last spell stopped the Patriarch's heart.  The power of the sword Solkrist instantly slew the Necromancer.  Solkrist disappeared forever in the mayhem after the fight, as did the arm of Zacharia.  The bone from this arm was so instilled with such Dark Magic that it was called the Bone of Doom."		James
673	"Ah, the Bone of Doom!  The legend of Zacharia will continue!  Here is your reward!"		James
674	"Some say that Iseldir's Puzzle Box is cursed and that use of it will make the owner go slowly mad.  This can't be true!  All of my studies have provided me with enough proof to determine that the box is the ultimate game in Jadame--not that ridiculous card game, Arcomage.  The last reported owner of Iseldir's Puzzle Box was Zanthora, who is also known as the Mad Necromancer of Shadowspire."		James
675	I ask you to recover the Puzzle Box and you return with nothing.  So you reward is nothing.  Return with the box!		James
676	"The Puzzle Box is mine!  Hours of mindless enjoyment at my finger tips!  Here, take you reward for it is nothing compared to the box!"		James
677	"A Necromancer's greatest ability is his Intellect!  Without sufficient Intellect, a Necromancer can find himself without spell points when he needs them most! If you bring me the basic ingredients of a Potion of Pure Intellect, I will reward you with the potion that I create!"		James
678	Greetings Master Bounty Hunter! The Guild of Bounty Hunters thanks you for your services to all of Jadame. We are at your disposal!		James
679	"You have returned with the ingredients, holding up you end of the bargain.  Here is your Potion of Pure Intellect."		James
680	We seek to put to rest the soul of the Nosferatu called Korbu.  We have heard rumors that the vampires of Shadowspire seek to resurrect this ancient evil.  There is a Vial of Grave Dirt kept hidden in the Vampire Crypt in the region of Shadowspire that is instrumental in bringing Korbu back to life.  Find us this vial and return it to us.  We will always be in your debt and we will reward you well.		James
681	Korbu scattered vials of the dirt from his original grave to safe guard himself.  This way he could always gain access to the dirt and move his crypt if he needed to.		James
682	"Ah, once we perform the Rites of Purification upon this dirt, Korbu will rest eternally.  We are in your debt and here is your reward as promised!"		James
683	"Personality--the cleric's truest strength.  If you were to provide me with the basic ingredients of a Potion of Pure Personality, I would be more than happy to brew one for you!  Bring me the ingredients!"		James
684	You are missing all or some of the needed ingredients.  Return when you have them all.		James
685	"Ah, you learned the recipe or are very lucky!  Here is your potion!"		James
686	Wyverns are one of the toughest creatures that roam the continent of Jadame.  The Ancient Wyvern can even slay the mightiest adventurer with one blow.  The horn of the Ancient Wyvern is said to have many medicinal any magical properties.  There are many people who pay well for ground wyvern horn.		James
687	I will buy Wyvern horns from you for 1500 gold!  I grind these horns up and sell them throughout Jadame.  Someday I hope to be able to ship them over sea to Enroth and Erathia.  That of course depends on whether the Pirates of Regna are still a problem to shipping or not!		James
688	1500 gold!		James
689	"Accuracy can determine who lives and who dies in battle.  If you cannot hit your opponent you will surely perish!  If you bring me the ingredients of a Potion of Pure Accuracy, I will brew that potion for you."		James
690	You have not found the treasure of the Dread Pirate Stanley!  		James
691	"Ah, the right ingredients always do the trick! Here is your potion."		James
692	The legendary Pirate Stanley is rumored to have stolen hundreds and thousands of gold pieces from the Merchants of Alvar.  No one has ever found where he has hidden his treasure.  Some say it isn't even hidden on the Island of Regna.		James
693	"Years and years ago, I remember hearing that Stanley journeyed to Ravage Roaming to speak with the Ogre Mage Zog about a curse that had fallen upon him.  Apparently his memory was fading, and he was certain that an evil mage was responsible."		James
694	He who finds the treasure of the Dread Pirate Stanley will be a rich person!  Will that person be you?		James
695	Tobersk fruit is native only to the Dagger Wound Island region.  Here the mild winters and humid summers provide the perfect conditions for the Tobersk fruit to achieve the correct levels of sugar and juice.  The pulp masters in Ravenshore pay good money for the tobersk fruit.		James
696	"Tobersk brandy is favorite drink of the Lizardmen of Dagger Wound Island.  Some call it an acquired taste.  How ever you look at it, it equals pure profit!"		James
697	Tobersk fruit is processed in Ravenshore into tobersk pulp.  Its from this pulp that the master brewers in Alvar distill tobersk brandy.		James
698	"Here the mild winters and humid summers provide the perfect conditions for the tobersk fruit to achieve the correct levels of sugar and juice.  Here you can purchase tobersk fruit so our pulp masters can labor over the fruit, processing it into tobersk pulp."		James
699	"Tobersk brandy is a favorite drink among the Lizardmen of Dagger Wound Island.  Some call it an acquired taste.  How ever you look at it, it equals pure profit!  Be gentle with the bottles as you travel back to the islands."		James
700	Tobersk pulp is combined with the waters of the Alvar River and is distilled over time until the brew masters declare it ready for consumption. 		James
701	The Heartwood of Jadame is used by the vampires of the Shadowspire region in the construction of their coffins.  The Heartwood's durability provides the coffin's owner with many years of rest during the daylight hours.		James
702	"Dried sunfish is a delicacy enjoyed by the High Clerics of the Temple of the Sun.  They pay good money for deliveries of this flaky, somewhat salty fish."		James
703	"The Pirates of Regna like flamboyant jewelry!  Amulets that fail to take enchantments cast by the Necromancers of Shadowspire fill this need quite well.  The Pirates pay some of their ""hard earned"" bounty to get these amulets."		James
704	The Heartwood of Jadame is used by the Vampires of the Shadowspire region in the construction of their coffins.  The Heartwood's durability provides the coffin's owner with many years of rest during the daylight hours.		James
705	"Dried Sunfish is a delicacy enjoyed by the High Clerics of the Temple of the Sun.  They pay good money for deliveries of this flaky, somewhat salty fish."		James
706	"The Pirates of Regna like flamboyant jewelry!  Amulets that fail to take enchantments cast by the Necromancers of Shadowspire fill this need quite well.  The Pirates pay some of their ""hard earned"" bounty to get these amulets."		James
707	Purchase Silver Dust of the Sea made by the Necromancers of Shadowspire. It is used by the smugglers of Ravenshore to hide their boats.  It provides the boats with a limited form of invisibility.		James
708	"Ground Wyvern Horn is reported to be one of the most potent reagents used by the necromancers of Shadowspire.  Unlike the reagents used by alchemists, this reagent is only used by the highest ranking members of the Necromancers' Guild."		James
709	These Forged Credit Vouchers are used by agents of the Ogre Mage Zog to acquire gold from the Merchants of Alvar.		James
710	Purchase Silver Dust of the Sea made by the necromancers of Shadowspire. It is used by the Smuggler's of Ravenshore to hide their boats.  It provides the boats with a limited form of invisibility.		James
711	"Ground Wyvern Horn is reported to be one of the most potent reagents used by the necromancers of Shadowspire.  Unlike the reagents used by alchemists, this reagents is only used by the highest members of the Necromancers' Guild."		James
712	These Forged Credit Vouchers are used by agents of the Ogre Mage Zog to acquire gold from the Merchants of Alvar.		James
713	Empty Barrel		
714	+2 Might permanent		
715	+2 Accuracy permanent		
716	+2 Personality permanent		
717	+2 Intellect permanent		
718	+2 Endurance permanent		
719	+2 Speed permanent		
720	+2 Luck permanent		
721	Empty Cauldron		
722	+2 Fire Resistance permanent		
723	+2 Water Resistance permanent		
724	+2 Air Resistance permanent		
725	+2 Earth Resistance permanent		
726	Diseased!		
727	Nothing Here		
728	Poisoned!		
729	You have failed the game!	Failed game	
730	You have failed the contest!	Failed contest	
731	You have failed the test!	Failed test	
732	You have failed the challenge!	Failed challenge	
733	You have already won!	Already won	
734	You win!  +3 Skill Points	Won Game	
735	You win!  +5 Skill Points	Won Contest	
736	You win!  +7 Skill Points	Won Test	
737	You win!  +10 Skill Points	Won Challenge	
738	Drunk!		
739	Empty Cask		
740	You don't have enough gold!		
741	"Thanks for the cure, but others in the area are still sick!  Be sure to deliver the cure to them as well!"		
742	"I am very sick, without a Cure Disease scroll I will surely perish from Yellow Fever!."		
743	Thanks for the cure! Be sure to deliver scrolls to those who still suffer from the Yellow Fever.		
744	The epidemic continues! The people on the outer islands will perish!		
745	Without the Anointed Herb Potion we cannot remove the poison from our water supply!		
746	Where is the Idol?  Do not waste my time unless you have it!		
747	"Black Potions are made of a complex blending of many of the three basic alchemical reagents. Red reagents include Widowsweep Berries, Wolf's Eye, and Phials of Gog Blood.  Some blue reagents are Phoenix Feather, Phima Root, Meteor Fragment and Will O' Wisps Heart.  And some yellow reagents are Datura, Dragon Turtle Fang, Poppy Pods and Thornbark."		
748	"You have repaired the Portals of Stone?  That is tremendous news!  Quickly, find my brother, Isthric and tell him to return home!"	James	
749	"You found Isthric and told him how to return home?  We are indeed in debt to you, Merchant of Alvar!  I will speak well of you to Clan Leader Brekish Onefang.  Please take these potions of Cure Wounds as a reward."	James	
750	You have found the Prophecies of the Snake!  Perhaps the details of our future can be found in its writings!  Please take this reward for your assistance!	James	
751	"My brother Rohtnax lives!  And you have repaired the Portals of Stone?  I must return home to him, so that we can plan our family's survival!"	James	
752	Thank you again for making it possible for me to return to my family! The Clan Leader shall hear of your help!	James	
753	"You have killed all of the dire wolves in the region!  Travelers are once again safe. However, I now find myself in need of a new business!"	James	
754	"You have no more pelts, return when you have more!"	James	
755	"My family returned and told me of how you rescued them.  Tell the Merchants of Alvar, that they no longer need rely upon our ""bargain.""  I will keep my word to them and to you, my boats will always be at your service!"	James	
756	You do not have any Naga Hides!  You waste my time!	James	
757	Where is Eclipse?  Return to me when you have found the shield!	James	
758	I pay 500 gold for Ogre Ears.  The Merchant Guild of Alvar supports me in paying this bounty to anyone who can kill and ogre.	James	
759	Return to me with Ogre ears if you wish to be paid!	James	
760	"I only pay for Wasp Stingers!  Nothing more, nothing less!"	James	
761	"Thanks for the potion, but others in the area are without protection!  Be sure to deliver a potion to them as well!"	James	
762	I an defenseless against the onslaught of the sea of fire!  I need a Potion of Fire Resistance!	James	
763	Thanks for the potion!	James	
764	Thanks for providing Potions of Fire Resistance to the southernmost houses here in Rust.  Perhaps we can survive until a new home can be found for us!	James	
765	Return when you have more Wyvern Horns and I will pay you more!	James	
766	Royal Wasp Jelly is a delicacy!  The upper caste of Merchants enjoys this tasty treat with almost every meal!	James	
767	I pay 1000 gold for Royal Wasp Jelly!	James	
768			14
769	Return when you have Wasp Jelly and then I will pay you!		
770	"Scattered around the land are the Challenges.  If your ability is great enough, and you best the Challenge, you will be award skill points to do with as you wish!"	James	
771	The Dragons of Garrote Gorge are susceptible to a poison that can be distilled from the rare dragonbane flower.  The flower also is the only means of an antidote for the Dragons.	James	
772	"With all of the Dragons in the wilderness defeated, we can move on the Dragon Cave and eliminate the Dragons once and for all!  Thanks again for your help in defeating them."	James	
773	"With all of the Dragon hunters in the wilderness defeated, we can move on their camp and eliminate them once and for all!  Thanks again for your help in defeating them."	James	
774	Return when you have the Drum of Victory.  You waste your time and mine otherwise!	James	
775	"I ask for the Bone, and you return with nothing. Be gone!"	James	
776	I need not see you again until you have the Puzzle Box!	James	
777	You're new aren't you?  Tell Arion Hunter that I expect more of his rabble than the likes of you!  Give me the reports and leave my sight!  You make me sick!	James	
778	You have not gathered sufficient bounties to allow us to promote you!	James	
779	"You currently hold the rank of Novice Bounty Hunter, but lack sufficient bounty to be promoted to Journeyman."	James	
780	"You currently hold the rank of Journeyman Bounty Hunter, but lack sufficient bounty to be promoted to Master."	James	
781	You currently hold the rank of Master Bounty Hunter! This is the highest rank of our guild.	James	
782	"Lying as they do on opposite ends of the Light to Dark spectrum, relationships between the Necromancers' Guild and the Temple of the Sun have never been the best, but now they battle openly. Oskar Tyre, head priest of the Temple says a holy vision drove him to declare war on the guild so as to rid Jadame of the taint of darkness.Both groups are relative newcomers to our continent. The guild has set up its foothold in Shadowspire, and the First (and only) Sun Temple of Jadame is in Murmurwoods."	James	
783	"Through your delivery of the Nightshade Brazier into their hands, the Necromancers' Guild has come out on top in their war with the Temple of the Sun. The artifact's magic creates a permanent shadow of darkness which surrounds the Shadowspire region. Under this cover, vampires defend the land both day and night. This has allowed the guild to field larger forces of skeletons, zombies and other undead against the temple's armies. Each report I receive puts the heart of the battle closer and closer to the Sun Temple's doorstep."		Sahil Ittalle
784	"Because you have destroyed the Necromancers' Guild Skeleton Transformer, the Temple of the Sun has come out on top in their war with the guild. The skeletons created by the device made up the bulk of the guild's reinforcements. Without these, the necromancers' forces crumble before the temple's advance. Each report I receive puts the heart of the battle closer to the Necromancers' Guild doorstep."		Sahil Ittalle
785	"The renown Dragon slayer, Charles Quixote of Erathia, has set up a hunting expedition in Garrote Gorge. This is no ""safari,"" in fact, it's the largest operation of this type I've heard of. The hunters have a permanent base from which they sell hides, eggs, baby dragons, and other items. Garrote Gorge has always had a large Dragon population, but I imagine they must be facing extinction--so efficient are Quixote's hunters."		Sahil Ittalle
786	"It seems Charles Quixote's Dragon hunting operation in Garrote Gorge has almost completely wiped out Garrote Gorge's Dragon population. I'm sure once their done, those mountains will be safer to travel. Still, I wonder what Jadame will be like without Dragons."		Sahil Ittalle
787	"By recovering Deftclaw Redreaver's heir for him, you've allowed him to safely attack Charles Quixote's camp. Dragon hunters operate by isolating members of their prey. They just aren't prepared to face Dragons in number! Needless to say, the camp's production of Dragon goods has dwindled to a trickle. A pity. The guild used to turned a good profit off them."		Sahil Ittalle
788	"The Minotaurs of Balthazar Lair in Ravage Roaming are a proud culture. Their recent defeat of the Vori Frost Giants has, if anything, made them even more fiercely independent--more sure of their ability to face any task alone. Still, I have told the guild that they would make great allies, both to face the current crisis and later as trade partners."		Sahil Ittalle
789	"By rescuing the Balthazar Lair Minotaurs, you have ingratiated them to yourselves and by extension, to our guild. Even through the crisis, trade relations with them have improved immeasurably. Once maters of the cataclysm are resolved, I'm sure we will see a tidy profit--a direct result from your good work."		Sahil Ittalle
790	Who knows the fate of Jadame now.  Perhaps you will find a way to save us from destruction?		James
791	Jadame owes you a great debt!  You have saved the entire world from total destruction!		James
792	"With the bridges destroyed by the eruption of the mountain of fire, we cannot get to the boat dock!  We are cut off from the mainland!"		James
793	"You have repaired the Portals of Stone?  We are all in your debt.  If only it was safe to travel through the Abandoned Temple!  Well, at least we can attempt to get to the boat dock through there."		James
794	"We used to have a nice series of bridges between the small islands of this region and one large bridge to the main land.  The volcano destroyed all of these.  Now we cannot travel anywhere except by boat, but we cannot even get to our boat dock!"		
795	"Did you know I was their captive for over six years? At first, I thought they were devils from hell, but now I am not so sure. They looked like devils surely, but did not act as demons. No, I think they were but another type of monstrous race, like ogres or goblins. Regardless, devils or not, I am glad the world is rid of them!"		Roland Ironfist
796	"Catherine and I have had dealings with these ""lords"" of the elemental planes. I've never trusted them, and now it seems I am right. They were our recent allies against the Kreegans, but a few months later, we find ourselves at war with them here! In both cases I understand neither their reasons for helping or hindrance. They are fickle beings at best...""treacherous"" is perhaps a better word for them."		Roland Ironfist
797	"I must say I'm looking forward to returning to my lands of Enroth. It has been so long since I've seen them, or my son, Prince Nicolai. He was just a lad when I saw him last and now he is nearly grown. Sir Humphrey was a good choice for regent, but the land has been too long without its king at the reins of state."		Roland Ironfist
798	"After we defeated the Kreegans in Erathia, I abdicated my throne into the regenthood of one of my generals, Morgan Kendal. I have left in his capable hands the task of choosing Erathia's new ruler. I'm sure this seems to be much to give up, but I am first and foremost, the queen of Enroth. We were sailing for there when the cataclysm struck, drawing us here."		Catherine Ironfist
799	"The Kreegans? They are no more; I am sure of it. After we put down Lucifer Kreegan, my armies scoured Eofol searching for any signs of their continued existence. We found none. No, the Kreegan infestation of our world is eliminated."		Catherine Ironfist
800	"I fought alongside elementals in our campaigns against the Kreegan. I found them stalwart and loyal. I know Roland disagrees, but I cannot call their hostility here a case of fickleness. No, I think something else drives them to attack us--magic perhaps? You should speak with our sage, Xanthor. He has been studying the Destroyer's crystal. I'm sure he's come up with some theory by now."		Catherine Ironfist
801	We used to travel freely between the islands using the bridges.  These bridges were destroyed when the mountain of fire erupted.  Many families are trapped on the outer islands.  We don’t even know if the people who live there are still alive.		James
802	"With the Portals of Stone repaired, we can at least check on the outer islands and those who live there.  We are in your debt for fixing the Portals of Stone."		James
803	"The boat dock on the northernmost island is the only way to travel between Dagger Wound and the mainland.  With the bridges destroyed, we cannot get to the boat dock and those arriving from Ravenshore cannot get to the village of Blood Drop!"		James
804	We can get to the boat docks?  But we have to go through the Abandoned Temple?  Well that's something.  At least we can get to the boats.		James
805	"I have traveled to these lands to catalog its array of available cheese. My task is nearly complete, but there are yet three cheeses I have yet to sample. These are Frelandeau, Eldenbrie and Dunduck. I would reward highly any who could locate these rare and reputedly tasty culinary gems for me."		Asael Fromago
806	"You say you will find me the cheeses I desire, but here you are returned, empty-handed! Do not waste my precious time! Bring me cheese--Frelandeau, Eldenbrie and Dunduck! Do not return until you have them!"		Asael Fromago
807	"Very good, you have found me some of the cheese I seek. But now I have my heart set on a full cheese tasting with all three cheeses eaten at once so I can savor them in comparison. Come back when you have then all. I will not take what you have now. I don't think I could resist sampling what you leave--and then the cheese tasting would be ruined!"		Asael Fromago
808	"Excellent! Give me the cheeses! I must consume them!Ah….munch munch….frelandeau, exquisite….mmmm, and eldenbrie, wondrously smoky…and hmmm, dunduck…well, that's not very nice, is it?You have made my Jadamean cheese cataloging safari a success! I can die a happy man! You have the humble thanks of a man of cheese. And here is your promised reward!"		Asael Fromago
809	"There are no people more dedicated to cheesecraft than the august cheese masters of Vori. Otherwise known to be rather barbaric, the Vori Frost Giants are true emblems of the potential of civilized development--at least as far as cheese making is concerned. Did you know that they have forty-two different words for ""cheese."""		Asael Fromago
810	"Even as a lad I knew I had a special relationship with cheese. Why, my first memory is of nibbling a bit of farmer's cheddar from my mother's hand! From that day I knew it would be my passion to eat cheese, to know all of the endless variety of its tasty wonderment, and to search the world for rare and exotic cheese-stuff. And so have I made my life...and destiny."		Asael Fromago
811	"With the cheeses you have brought me, I have now eaten all of the world's known cheeses. Now none can say that I, Asael Fromago, am not history's most eminent connoisseur of cheese! None can compare to my glory! Ha-ha-ha…"		Asael Fromago
812	"The night the stranger came through here was the same night that the crystal erupted in the center of town.  I only caught a glimpse of the stranger.  He didn’t appear the potent mage that he was.  I was not in the town square when he summoned the crystal, but I did see the flash of light that traveled across the sky.  It was truly a terrible night."		Hint Ravenshore
813	A wanderer came into town.  Several ruffians sought to relieve this traveler of whatever wealth he possibly possessed. The wanderer barely paid any of them much notice.  With a small flick of his wrist all fell before him.  Then he walked to the town square and summoned the giant crystal that you'll find there today.		Hint Ravenshore
814	"There is an ancient saying among the Dark Elf people,  ""a thing lives only as long as the last person who remembers it.""  The events the night the crystal burst forth into our lives will live for a very long time.  Many of us saw the events of that night.  The mage who summoned forth the crystal said not one word to anyone us.  When he looked upon us, it seemed that all there was in his heart and eyes was pity."		Hint Ravenshore
815	When the mage came into town I didn’t think much of it.  This is Ravenshore.  Everyone who travels the roads of Jadame comes through here at some time or another.  I guess I should have paid more attention to him.  Seems he caused quite a stir in the town square.		Hint Ravenshore
816	"The Pirates of Regna own the seas.  No one can stand against them!  Several years ago, some fishing boat captains thought that they could sail to Erathia to get help dealing with the pirates.  We never saw or heard from them again."		"Hint Ravenshore, Dagger Wound, Ravage Roaming, Shadowspire"
817	The Regnans are the worst slime to ever set foot on the shore of Jadame. They keep the peoples of this continent from trading with Erathia and Enroth.  What choice do we have?  Even the Merchants of Alvar couldn’t muster a fleet to deal with the pirates.  Rumor says that there are smugglers around that have found ways around the pirate blockades.		"Hint Ravenshore, Dagger Wound, Ravage Roaming, Shadowspire"
818	"The Regnans call themselves the Empire of the Endless Ocean--trying to make more of themselves than there really is.  All they are is bullies and bandits.  Of course, don’t tell them that I said that!"		"Hint Ravenshore, Dagger Wound, Ravage Roaming, Shadowspire"
819	Over the last few weeks there have been reports of bandits and Ogres robbing travelers on all of the major roads of Jadame. Times just seem to be getting worse.  Between the Regnan Pirates and these bandits it seems that no one is safe to travel by any means.		Hint Alvar
820	Several of the warriors got together to go take care of the ogres that were camping on the road to Ravenshore.  That’s when we first had word of the fortress they were constructing to the southwest of here.  Since the fortress was completed the roads to the south and west have not been safe.		Hint Alvar
821	"The Smuggler of Jadame may be a myth, but I think not.  The Merchants of Alvar seem to be able to send small amounts of goods away across the sea to Erathia and Enroth.  Yet they own no boats of their own.   This would seem to support the idea that there really are smugglers.  Now why they work for the merchants is beyond the likes of me."		"Hint Ravenshore, Alvar"
822	Wererats!  They are the worst of scum!  The pick through our trash at night!  Always scurrying around in the dark!  Never seen when the sun is up.  Gives one the shivers it does!		"Hint Ravenshore, Alvar"
823	"The Cyclopes that dwell to the southeast of here have always been a threat to the village of Rust!  But the village has always been able to push back any raid.  They aren't so tough in small numbers, but if they can catch you out in the desert unaware, you will not survive!  "		Hint Ironsand
824	The sea of fire took us all by surprise.  It spread through the eastern half of the village like wildfire.  Luckily its growth seems to have slowed.  Still I don’t know how much longer any of us can last.		Hint Ironsand
825	We need to find a new place to live!  There is no way any people could live under these conditions.  Even the Cyclopes will be forced to move.  There are legends that talk about the ancient homeland that we traveled here from.  The stories say that it was lush and green.  If we only had such a place to return to.		Hint Ironsand
826	There are traders in Alvar and Shadowspire that trade for the different types of ore that can be found all over Jadame.  They use the ore to create items that they are more than happy to trade for more ore!		Hint anywhere
827	"You know, it is said the Vault of Time was here before Ravenshore; the town was built around it. It is supposed to contain the treasure of the old Emperor Thorn who ruled the lands around here hundreds of years ago. Many come here to try and open the vault, but none succeed."		Poundlin Deerhunter
828	"As if Quixote was not enough of a problem to plague us, we must also contend with Ilsingore, Ilsingore and Old Loeb--renegades among our kind! They think they can rebuild our race by scattering across Jadame and starting their own tribes. Fools! All they do is weaken us by removing themselves from our numbers. Yaardrake has fled to the Ironsand Desert. I know not where the others have gone."		Bazalath NPC 443
829	"While Garrote Gorge has the highest concentration of dragons in Jadame, I hear there is hunting to be had elsewhere. For instance, there is rumored to be a great old dragon out in the Ironsand Desert. Another is supposed to be somewhere in the badlands of Ravage Roaming."		Isram Delver NPC 418
830	"When Charles Quixote brought us over from Erathia, we sailed past Regna Island. Since this was our first sight of Jadamean land on the voyage, it was an omen of our hunting expedition's future success that I saw an ancient dragon winging its way towards the island. How I wish I could get a spear in that one! It was the biggest dragon I'd ever seen!"		topic 675
831	"Yes, I was here the day the Destroyer walked through Ravenshore! I was at the blacksmith's getting a knife sharpened. He walked right past us like he owned the town. A crowd was following him at a distance. One of them threw a rock, but it bounced off a magic shield surrounding him. He didn't even seem to notice. Later I heard an explosion from the town square. I ran out to look, but the Destroyer was gone and that crystal and scattered bodies were all that remained."		Elsie Apple NPC 405
832	"Yeah, I saw the ""Destroyer"" and well named he is! I thought he was a rich merchant, and he looked like easy prey, so I…well, I tried to rob him. I ran ahead of him and lay in ambush in an alley, waiting for him to pass. When he walked by, I made a grab for him. My mistake! I didn't even touch him! As soon as I got near him, I was thrown back by his magic. In fact, I was thrown over a house into the next street!"		Aznog Black NPC 409
833	"Those cursed ratmen--those so-called ""Priests of Eep""--are nothing but trouble. More like a pack of thieves than holy men, they are! I'll warn you, traveler. Keep an eye on your equipment when they're around. They'll steal anything that isn't nailed down."		Mortie Bith NPC 408
834	"Well, if you're looking for cheese, I daresay you will find it in the churches of Eep. You know mice like cheese. Well, this rule also applies to the ratmen of Eep. It is said that they keep a horde of the stuff in each of their temples."		Jillian Applebee NPC 406
835	"On top of all of our problems here, the lord of our plane, Gralkor the Cruel is missing. He is a being of great power and could no doubt fight the dark magic which assails this plane."		Plane of Earth one
836	I wish I understood what has happened here. One day it was life as usual here…and this is normally a peaceful realm. Then suddenly everyone was howling with violent madness and was filled with a thirst to crush your land of Jadame. Even now my fellow Earth Plane denizens work single-mindedly to push the firmament of our realm into yours.		Plane of Earth two
837	"Perhaps the reason I am not affected by the madness is that I carry with me an amulet given to me by the lord of this plane, Shalwend. It is said in our legends that he and the other elemental lords made your world. No doubt if Shalwend was here he could stop the creeping madness, but he is missing! Where is our lord in our time of greatest need?"		Plane of Air one
838	"It was clearly magic which caused the madness that has taken my fellow Plane of Air dwellers. On the day it struck there was instant chaos. All who were affected dropped what they were doing and began to howl. It was a chorus of horror! Only a handful of us maintain our sanity. Now, day by day, our glorious realm falls further and further towards a state of hellish decline."		Plane of Air two
839	"I am not unschooled in the ways of magic. Clearly some spell of almost unimaginable power has affected those that live in this watery realm. My main curiosity is to know why this has occurred. Clearly no one would risk using such power if it was not to achieve some terrible end. All I know is that the Plane of Water makes war upon your realm. From here, I can discern no reason to it!"		Plane of Water one
840	"W-what has h-happened to my home w-waters? All are c-consumed by m-m-madness! And worse, our l-lord is m-missing! Where is our r-ruler, th-the mighty Acw-w-walander! W-without him w-we are d-doomed!"		Plane of Water two
841	"I know to your eyes, this plane must seem a hell-scape. But I tell you, normally it is not so. Before the madness we lived here together in a state of peace and harmony. But then, one day the madness fell and our Lord Pyrannaste was nowhere to be found. Perhaps his absence caused the madness? It may be so, he has never before been gone from this realm in my memory."		Plane of Fire one
842	"Though the madness affects almost all of those that live here, it has not robbed them of their cunning. As I am sure you are aware, they make war on your realm, but it is not with crazed abandon that they do so. Leaders have emerged among the affected, and these make shrewd military designs against you. Even now they mass near the gateway to Jadame in preparation for a massive assault."		Plane of Fire two
843	"The Snapfinger family tomb is one of the lowest in our village's burial catacombs. Since we are such an honored family, our crypt is the largest. It isn't the easiest place to find--even I have become lost looking for it! When I do, I find it by keeping a hand on the right-side wall. I eventually get there."		Overdune Snapfinger NPC 7
844	Have you found the shield?  The recovery of Eclipse is very important to the Temple of the Sun!  You must help us find it!		Lathius
845	Thanks again for recovering the shield Eclipse!  I hope it has proven helpful in your adventures.		Lathius
846	You never had it!		Seer
847	Here is your missing item.		Seer
848	"Well, that matter's done. I will make arrangements to travel to Ravenshore so I myself may sit on your council. Frankly, I could use a bit of change. I will leave my second in command, Reginald Dorray, in charge.Again, good job."		Seer
849	"I'm sorry. I'd like to adventure, yes, but you're just not at my level."		K Memoria
850	"Sure, why not? I'm ready to go--just have to grab my gear! I'll show the guild who is worthy and who isn't!"		K Memoria
851	"No…no, that life is over for me. Besides, if I were to take up the mace again, it would be with other companions. I'm afraid--if I may speak bluntly--I just can't see myself traveling with a group as inexperienced as yours."		Maylander
852	"Say, that sounds grand! Yes, I will go with you, if you will have me."		Maylander
853	"I think not! Why would I travel with the likes of you? Perhaps you didn't catch my name, ""Jasp Thelbourne?"" Yes, that ""Thelbourne,"" rabble. No, whatever you're up to, I'm not interested."		Thelbourne
854	"Yes, we'd make quite a team! We have all done such great deeds, how could not further greatness follow from our joining together? I'll go with you if you want."		Thelbourne
855	"Now that I need not fear my heir's destruction. I will visit my revenge on Quixote. His camp will face the assault of fire and claw. Those who have hunted us are now our prey animals.As for your alliance…you have done me a great service. I will honor my debt. As soon as I've set my enemies to flight or the beyond, I will join the alliance council in Ravenshore."		Thelbourne
856	"I tell you, with all that's going on, it's like an honest merchant can't get business done! I mean, we've always had to deal with Ogre raiders, but now they've grown so bold as to have built a fort right here in Alvar! Now no caravans can take the west road to Murmurwoods. The worst of it is most of my trade with the Temple of the Sun there!"		D Farswell
857	You have done us all a great service by clearing out the Ogre's fort. Now our caravans can freely travel to Murmurwoods. I thank you…and my purse certainly thanks you!		D Farswell
858	"Sure we have wasps in Alvar--and rather large ones, too--but we tolerate them for good reason. Many of our customers desire wasp products. Say…if you want to get in on the action, the trader, Veldon, is a broker for wasp parts. He lives here in town, and I hear he is currently trying to fill a large order for wasp stingers."		B Featherwind NPC422
859	"Not many people know this, but it is possible to train a Dragon. It's sort of like breaking a horse, except that it requires more special equipment and a lot of magic. Those tame Dragons outside the fort are an example of my work. Right now they are loyal to us, but I will bond them to their ultimate customer, Fennis Greenwood, a minor lord back in Erathia. Well, I will do so as soon as he pays us, that is."		Weldrick Falconeye NPC 420
860	"Zanthora is a strange character. Not to say that members of the Necromancers' Guild are not all strange, but she is truly mad. I hear that other guild members simply refuse to work with her--so terrible are her experiments. Still, they value her dark genius. To keep her around, they built her a lab of her own out on the marshy wastes outside of town."		K Fellburn NPC 423
861	"For the most part, the Necromancers' Guild has the local vampires under control…mostly. But there's one place you don't want to go! Most of them sleep in a communal crypt north of the guild. Watch out if you go there. They're a bit, shall we say…""territorial."""		L Gallowswell NPC 428
862	"The Necromancers' Guild? Hey, I think they're great. You should have seen this place before they came--nothing going on at all! Sure, we got vampires, skeletons and other undead running around. Still, I gotta say, things are sure a lot more lively around here!"		A Fiddlebone NPC 424
863	"As you might imagine, business is great. Oh, sure, the guild necromancers turn most of my customers into skeletons and zombies, but vampires are repeat business! Want a piece of the action? There's a wood dealer in town, Mylander, who is always looking for good Murmurwood lumber. If you have any he'll pay a pretty penny for it."		Sethrik Fist NPC 425
864	"Hunting has become pretty hazardous of late, but still we must do it if we are to eat! Yesterday I was out along the western shore of the fire lake and found a tunnel that seems to go under the lake. I didn't explore it though. It was infested with gogs and worse...like everything else around here these days."		Bigfist Slowstepper NPC 426
865	"Even we who live here get lost. If you would not lose your way, follow the floating waystones. Ahhh…the madness returns….It returns!"		Zephyr NPC 427
866	"Ah, I'm glad you're out saving the world. I mean, someone has to do it. Me, I'm for the easy life. As long as I got my boat and my pole, and the fish are biting, I don't see any reason to do much else. Good luck to you though!"		Davee Sail NPC 503
867	"That Stanley, now there's a Regnan with some spark! Why I hear he's the one that got us in good with that thar Zog the Jackal--some sort of Ogre or giant Troll or something, I think--a genuine barbarian king. Now we got us our ships on the seas and a bunch of club swinging devils on the land. I tell ya, the Great and Mighty Regnan Empire is headed for greatness, what with the likes of the Dread Pirate Stanley doing for us!"		Erik Jarblower NPC 504
868	"Oh sure, we Regnans have to put up with a bit of competition--I'm talking about smugglers, you know--but I understand the Dread Pirate Stanley is putting the clamp on that. Why I understand he kidnapped Arion Hunter's family just so he can pressure the wererat into staying off our turf. "		Jarrena Marmon NPC 505
869	"Yeah, I know the ""Dread"" Pirate Stanley is the hero of the moment around here, but I say, fah! Sure he's done a lot for Regna, but no man does anything that doesn't help himself. Why I hear old Stanley's been shaving off the top of every deal he's in--and that's a lot of deals! What I'd like to know is where he keeps his booty. Probably not on Regna, I reckon. It wouldn't be a fortnight before someone dug it up!"		Pirate Paul NPC 506
870	"I have come up with a scheme for finding hidden treasure. Before you barged in, I was hard at work formulating a spell for sensing gold hidden beneath the ground. If I am successful, I plan to have a Dragon carry me over the wastelands of Ravage Roaming where the Dread Pirate Stanley's treasure is rumored to be buried. My spell will find it and I will be a wealthy man."		Yoel Wargreen NPC 507
871	"You mean the one just north of here? Well, none of us have anything to do with it. It's haunted!"		Pordo NPC 508
872	"I don't know where they're at, but I know there's some of them ratmen around here somewhere. At night I hear all sorts of squeaking and scuffling outside. In the morning, pretty much everything that isn't under lock or bolted down is gone. If I knew where that Eep church was. I'd take some of my boys over for a little...talk."		Vish NPC 509
873	"I was out with one of the crews working along the new lake searching for things that were washed out of the lair. We think we found the source of the flood. There is a strange gateway out in the middle of the lake. We don't have any boats, so we didn't explore it, but even from the shore, it is clear to see that it leads to a watery realm."		Ferris NPC 510
874	"Well, if you haven't been to the fortress, that's the first place you should go. As you are aware from your orientation, the so-called fortress on this island is just a front to fool our enemies. You'll need to make your way to the real fort on the crescent island. Just take the underground passage marked on your orientation map."		ex-captain terrence NPC 511
875	"I know they call us ""pirates"" on Jadame, but really, we're just running our empire. It is not our fault that our Jadamean subjects refuse to acknowledge our rule and do not pay their taxes. Since they do not pay, we're forced to collect tribute in the form of booty. Actually we prefer it this way--saves us the trouble of having to actually rule the continent."		F Ferne NPC 512
876	"We vampires cannot normally walk about in the daylight, but Thant the Necromancers' Guildmaster has created an artifact to deal with this. A vampire wearing one of his Nightshade Amulets can move about freely day or night. Sadly, there are few available. I myself do not have one so must stay indoors during the day."		Dierdre Wallace NPC 513
877	"Normally, we vampires need one of Thant's Nightshade Amulets to travel freely during the day, but since you've brought us the Nightshade Brazier, glorious night covers Shadowspire around the clock! Now those of us who don't have the amulets can walk about during the day...well, at least as long as we stay in the area."		Dierdre Wallace NPC 513
878	"Though it isn't my style, I must say a lot of folks around here like to cover themselves with all sorts of jewelry. They say it's fashion, but I just find it gaudy. Anyway, if you have any to sell go find Pavel in town. He does a brisk trade in all sorts of tacky junk."		Nalani NPC 514
879	"You looking for sunfish? Sorry, can't help you. Funny thing is, I had a whole catch of them just last week, but Pavel the merchant bought the whole lot. Maybe you can get them from him."		R Mercer NPC 515
880	Centuries ago the largest battle to date between the Guild of Necromancers and the Temple of the Sun was fought on this spot!  So much magical energy was released that the very ground was scorched and is black to this very day!		James Hint
881	"Very good…or at least, as good as can be expected. You managed to bring three partners into the alliance--the minimum number my advisors told me would be sufficient to fulfill the ""…Jadame, must stand together…"" part of the prophecy. A pity it could not be more, but events of the cataclysm are clearly coming to a head. It is time to move onward.You must travel to Ravenshore and meet with the alliance council gathered there. With them, decide what must be the next step we take in meeting the elemental crisis."		James Hint
882	We have a small warehouse downstairs. You are free to use the chests there to store extra equipment. Put anything in there you don't want to wander off!		Elgar Fellmoon
883	"Thank you for releasing me. Know that Shalwend, Lord of Air, holds you in his favor. I go now to restore order to my realm and to join with my fellow lords to do what I can for yours. Be warned! Our actions will destabilize the crystal gateway. Leave now for your home, lest you be trapped here forever.  Inform Xanthor of what has happened here. Farewell"		Elgar Fellmoon
884	"""The Destroyer"" is a fitting moniker for one who would imprison me in such a fashion. If it were not for you, I, Acwalander, Lord of Water, would have soon perished. My passing would have had an unbalancing effect across all the planes. Thank you. I go now to gather with the other lords. Together we will set things right. Be warned! Our actions will destabilize the crystal gateway. Leave now for your home, lest you be trapped here forever. Inform Xanthor of what has happened here. Farewell."	Shalwend	Elgar Fellmoon
885	"I am free! Now will he who was fool enough to jail me--this Destroyer--feel my wrath. That I, the Lord of Earth, am called ""Gralkor the Cruel"" is no mistake. The suffering I have felt will be his returned in multitudes!I go now to gather with the other lords. Together we will set things right. Be warned! Our actions will destabilize the crystal gateway. Leave now for your home, lest you be trapped here forever. Inform Xanthor of what has happened here. Farewell"	Acwalander	Elgar Fellmoon
886	"Free at last. My torment is over, but what of my subjects? I know the Destroyer has them compelled to a terrible task. My presence will sooth them. I must go to restore order to my realm and yours.Before I return to the Plane of Fire, I will gather with the other lords. Together we will set things right. Be warned! Our actions will destabilize the crystal gateway. Leave now for your home, lest you be trapped here forever.  Inform Xanthor of what has happened here. Farewell"	Gralkor	Elgar Fellmoon
887	"Oh, what a mess you've made of things! When I asked you to find me a witness of events in the Ironsand Desert, I thought it would be obvious that you'd have to return him to me in good condition! I mean look at the poor Troll! Take him to the temple and get him fixed up.And please...try to remember you're working for the guild. We do have a reputation for conducting ourselves with at least passing competence."	Pyrannaste	Elgar Fellmoon
888	You found Ebonest?  What of my father?  Where is he?  I thought you were going to return when you had found both my father and the spear.		Leane
889	"You found my father and Ebonest?  I will be forever in your debt!  We should take the spear to Charles Quixote, and if he is agreeable, he will promote me and any knights in your party!"		Leane
890	"You are employed by the Merchants of Alvar, yes? Well, I think you should speak with Dadeross, the leader of your caravan. My far seeing vision tells me he is on the Dagger Wound Islands."		seer
891	"Hmmm…I cannot look too far ahead--for the ether is thick today. All I see is that you must deliver the letter Dadeross gave you to the merchant, Elgar Fellmoon. Fellmoon lives in the city of Ravenshore."		seer
892	"I see a vision of you in which you take a letter from Elgar Fellmoon in Ravenshore to Arion Hunter, the leader of the Ravenshore smugglers. After this, you return to Fellmoon. The end of the vision is a blur, so you must not have lived entirely through it. Still, it is your fate to do these things."		seer
893	"I don't need my vision to tell me what you must do next. Do as Fellmoon asked of you. Go seek Bastian Loudrin, the guildmaster of the Alvarian Merchant Guild. He is in the city of Alvar."		seer
894	I see an important connection has not been made between the present and your future. You must return to Bastian Loudrin and continue your conversations with him. He will send you on the next step down your road.		seer
895	"In my dreams last night, I saw you traveling to the Ironsand Desert to find a witness to the formation of a great lake of fire which formed there during the cataclysm."		seer
896	"It is clear to me that you must bring the Troll, Overdune, to the merchant guild in Alvar."		seer
897	"I see far through space today, but not through time. A great disaster has befallen the Minotaurs of Balthazar Lair in Ravage Roaming. I feel that your destiny is linked with their fate. You must rescue them from their peril."		seer
898	"There is great turmoil in the Balance. It has taken me some time to know its source, but I know it now. It is caused by the war between the clerics of the Temple of the Sun located in Murmurwoods, and the Necromancers' Guild of Shadowspire. It is your destiny to undo the turmoil by choosing one of these two to ally with."		seer
899	"There is great turmoil in the Balance. It has taken me some time to know its source, but I know it now. There is conflict between the Dragons and Knights who fight in Garrote Gorge. It is your destiny to ally with one of the two at the expense of the other."		seer
900	You have done good work in forging the alliances you have. It is now time for you to seek the council of those allies you have brought together. Seek them out in their council chamber within the merchant guild in Ravenshore.		seer
901	I see an important connection has not been made between the present and your future destiny. You must return to the council chamber in the Ravenshore merchant guild. The councilors will send you on the next step down your road.		seer
902	You must do as the alliance council has asked of you. Find a way to Regna Island and sink the Regnan port fleet.		seer
903	"In case you haven't heard, Ravenshore is under attack by the Regnan pirates. The town has been evacuated. You must eliminate the pirate threat before the alliance council will return to guide you."		seer
904	Now that you've sunk the Regnan fleet. Go and seek the wisdom of your alliance council. They will give you the next task that will make your destiny.		seer
905	"You must speak to the Ironfists' court sage, Xanthor. He is housed in Ravenshore."		seer
906	"I see an important link between the present and your future has not been forged. Seek out the sage, Xanthor who resides in Ravenshore. He will send you on your destiny's next task."		seer
907	"It is clear that you must do as Xanthor has asked of you. Go to the four elemental planes and find in each, an elemental heartstone."		seer
908	"Now that you have the four elemental heartstones, you must now bring them to Xanthor in Ravenshore."		seer
909	Your destiny lies through the crystal gateway in Ravenshore. It will take you to the Plane Between Planes. There you will find the source of the elemental cataclysm.		seer
910	"You have talked to the Destroyer, but have failed to gather from him the key which will unlock your future. Return to him and continue your conversations."		seer
911	Your path is clear to my vision. You must seek out the four elemental lords and release them from their prisons. These prisons are in the Destroyer's realm--the Plane Between Planes.		seer
912	"Seek out Xanthor! Though he is but a piece in the game of Balance, the next move you make towards destiny it through a meeting with him."		seer
913	"The Balance is restored. Now that your destiny is made, I can no longer guide you--my sight only pertains to what is connected to the fate of Balance. What you do now is up to you. Good luck to you, Heroes of Jadame!"		seer
914	"You cannot be promoted until we know where Cauri Blackthorne is!  Locate her, and she will promote you.  After she is found and has retuned to the Merchant Guild, I will be glad to promote any Dark Elves in your party to Patriarch."		Jeebes
915	Cauri told me of how you helped her with the curse of the Basilisk.  She has instructed me to promote any Dark Elves that travel with you to Patriarch.		Jeebes
916	You cannot be promoted until the Ancient Troll Home has been found!  Return here when you have found it and talk with Volog.		
917	"Before Volog left, he instructed me to promote any Trolls that travel with you to War Troll.  The village of Rust will be forever thankful to you!"		
918	You cannot be promoted to Champion until you have proven yourself worthy!  		
919	Thanks for you help recovering the spear Ebonest!  I can promote any Knights that travel with you to Champion.		
920	"You have not proven yourself worthy!  Until you strike a blow against the Dragon Hunters, none of you will be promoted!"		
921	You have proven yourself and I will promote any Dragons that travel with you to Great Wyrm.		
922	You cannot be promoted to Priest of the Sun until you have recovered the Prophecies of the Sun!		
923	You are always welcome here!  Of course I will promote any Clerics that travel with you to Priest of the Sun!  		
924	You have not recovered the Lost Book of Kehl!  There will be no promotions until you return with the book!  Speak with Vetrinus Taleshire.		
925	"Ah, you return seeking promotion for others in your party?  I have not forgotten your help in recovering the Lost Book of Kehl!  All Necromancers in your party will be promoted to Lich.  Be sure each Necromancer has a Lich Jar in his possession."		
926	You have not found Korbu and until you have I refuse to promote any of you!  Begone!		
927	Any Vampires among you will be promoted to Nosferatu!  I remember those who helped in the recovery of the Remains of Korbu.		
928	You have not found the Axe of Balthazar!  You are not worthy of promotion!		
929	The Herd of Masul is in debt to you.  Any Minotaurs in your party are promoted to Minotaur Lord!		
930	My father sent you to rescue me?  I am grateful.  I will return to my father and let him know of your assistance!		
931	Where is the Vial of Grave Dirt?  Do not bother me until you have it!		
932	"I cannot yet travel with you!  I would sooner sign on with a merchant caravan, than travel with you.  Return to me when you have discovered more of the world, and your place in it."		
933	"I remember you!  The Book of Kehl has proven invaluable, and it would be a privilege to travel with you."		
934	"When you have grown and learned more of the ways of the world, then it would be my pleasure to travel with you.  Until then I have studies to complete here."		
935	Certainly!  Traveling with you would be an honor!		
936	"You have done us a great service, adventurers. On behalf of my herd, I give you our humblest thanks. Know that the Minotaurs of Balthazar Lair hold you in the highest regard. You will always be welcome among us."		
937	"Excellent!  Now that the Ogres are cleared from the roads and no longer inhabit the fortress, the roads to Ravenshore, Ironsand and Murmurwoods are safe again!  "		
938			
939	"Emerald Island is southeast of Erathia, and far away from pirates and other ruffians.  It would be ideal, if not for the constant swarms of dragonflies that infest the island.  Fortunately, the large number of armed and skilled people this contest has attracted should thin their numbers a bit.Lord Markham has supplemented the normally sparse village with a weapon, armor, and alchemist shop for your convenience during the contest.  A temple and basic magical guilds are also available.  I would suggest making sure that you are completely ready before you start off on the contest."		
940	Welcome to Emerald Island!  I'll be your docent for your stay on the island.  It is my duty to see that you understand the rules of both the island and the contest.  For the duration of your stay on Emerald Island please refrain from gross violations of civilized behavior.		
941	"I respect your decision.  I am, however, a patient man, and will offer you this chance until a winner in the contest is proclaimed."	Malwick no	
942	"The rules of the contest are simple:  The first person to return with the items is the winner.  All you need to do is collect a wealthy hat, a red potion, a longbow, a seashell, a musical instrument, and a floor tile from the Temple of the Moon and bring them to the judge to win."		
943	"Isn't this hunt exciting?  I really am grateful you came to my little event, and I hope you have fun, even if you don't win.  I think it's great that everyone is competing in a spirit of good sportsmanship and camaraderie."	speech stays until contest is won	
944	"If you win, you'll be in charge of one of the most scenic areas in all Erathia!  Harmondale is just outside of the Tularean Forest, right on the edge of the Elf-Human border.  And I'm sure you'll love the castle.  It's a bit of a fixer-upper, but it's quite roomy and has excellent ventilation.  It breaks my heart to part with this property, but I feel that the time has come for me to give something back to the people."	speech stays until contest is won	Markham
945	"Congratulations!  You are the new Lords of Harmondale!  Isn't it thrilling?  You can't imagine how good it feels for me to give this property away to you!  All of the benefits and rewards, and of course, the responsibilities of governing the town of Harmondale are now yours.  (Lord Markham produces a deed and contract) Just sign here...And here... And if I could just get your initials here... Yes!  Well, that's that!  You're all set.  And once again, congratulations!!!"	Replace this topic with 8 after it is spoken	
946	"Well, the ship that will take you to your fiefdom awaits you in the harbor.  My entourage and I will be taking a different ship out.  Just board whenever you're ready."	Replaces topic 7 permanently	
947	"Allow me to introduce myself.  My name is Mr. Malwick.  I represent a group of, shall we say, ""investors in the future"".  I have been observing you since you arrived on this island, and I believe your values and goals have much in common with ours.  I am empowered to grant you a fireball wand to help you win the Hunt today, in exchange for a favor in the future.  What do you say?"	"y/n.  If no, change text to 21.  If yes, print text 22, and remove this npc.  "	
948	We have reason to believe that whoever is in charge of Harmondale in the next few months will have an unprecedented opportunity to shape the future.  That is why I am here today--to make sure the shape of the future is pleasing to my associates.  I'm sure you understand.	Malwick	
949	"Excellent.  Sometime in the future, I or a representative of my group will call on you to return the favor.  I hope you won't disappoint us.  Here is your fireball wand.  We should not be seen talking again, the others might get suspicious."	"give fireball wand, remove this npc. (Mr. Malwick)"	
950	"I love being out on this side of the island, the view of the ocean is much better than from town, don't you agree?"	Sally	
951	"I have some nice sea shells for sale, shells that you can only find on Emerald Island.  Can I sell one to you?  They're only a hundred gold pieces each."	Sally	
952	"Here you go, I hope it reminds you of your trip to Emerald Island."	Sally	
953	"I really can't go any less than 100 gold; I need to make a living, too."	Sally	
954	"I see you have a fine hat, there.  How about a deal:  You give me your hat, and we let you keep your lives?"	Sharktooth	
955	"Thanks for the hat, friend!"	Sharktooth	
956	You should have accepted my offer…	Sharktooth	
957	This Temple is a pretty nasty place.  You should probably watch your back around here-- you never know what might want to kill you.	Sharktooth	
958	You should have listened to me; I warned you this was a nasty place.  Now get out of here before I decide to take something else from you.	Sharktooth	
959	I take this to mean you don't wish to accept my proposal.  I believe our business is concluded.	Malwick	
960	The toughest band of contestants have apparently hid out in the Temple of the Moon.  I think they might be wanting to ambush any group that tries to go there.	Adventurer 1	
961	"I know how to make a blue potion, but not red ones…Just about any blue herb will do.  Just mix it with an empty bottle and voila!  Instant blue potion.  I guess that making a red potion is similar, but I'm not sure.  They say mixing potions improperly can have really bad effects."	Adventurer 1	
962	"Sorry mates, this vessel's moored until a winner has been declared in the contest."		
963	"Good afternoon.  My duty is to verify that you have all the items necessary to win the contest.  You are required to bring a red potion, a longbow, a floor tile from the Temple of the Moon, a wealthy hat, seashell, and an instrument to me.  You can bring them in any order, just show them to me one at a time so that I may verify them."	judge	
964	"I see you have found a wealthy hat.  I shall mark this off your list accordingly, good work."	hat	
965	"Hmm, a fine lute this is.  Let me mark off the instrument from your list."	instrument	
966	"Adventurers indeed!  I didn't expect anyone to bring back a tile so quickly.  This is certainly a tile from the Temple, however so I shall mark the tile off your list."	floor tile	
967	"This longbow certainly qualifies for the hunt.  Good work, I shall mark that off your list."	longbow	
968	"A beautiful shell, much like the ones that Sally sells.  This certainly came from Emerald Island- I shall mark the shell off your list."	seashell	
969	"What took you so long?  Almost every group has turned in a red potion by now.  This is the easiest item in the hunt to manage, but better late than never.  I will mark it off your list."	red potion	
970	"Well, that's all six items.  You're the winner of the contest!  I suggest you talk to Lord Markham for the details on gaining your fiefdom, my work is done here."	all 	
971	"I'm sorry, but nothing you have is necessary for the hunt.  I don't mean to belittle what you have, but I'm not looking for any of it."	none	
972	"Are you contestants in Lord Markham's Scavenger Hunt?  How neat!  I'm here to provide entertainment to Lord Markham's entourage, the contestants, and to anyone else that would like to hear a song."	bard	
973	"I own a few instruments, but I only brought my lute with me.  Its old and not quite as well kept as some of the others, but I didn't want one of my good instruments stolen by pirates or damaged from exposure to the humid, salty air."	bard	
974	"You say you need an instrument for the Scavenger Hunt?  I suppose you could buy my lute, but I've had it for such a long time.  I guess I'd part with it for 500 gold.  Interested?"	bard	
975	"Well, promise to at least take care of it and not use it for firewood.  I suppose I'll have to make do without an instrument for the rest of this trip.  Maybe I should tell stories instead of sing until I get back home."	bard	
976	It would help if you had the 500 gold pieces.  Please don't try and cheat me out of my instrument.	bard	
977	"Hello there!  I suppose you're part of the contest?  Good to hear.  We were wondering if you would want to trade a red potion, assuming you have one, for a hat.  We could help each other along a little."	Adventurer 1	
978	"Wonderful!  Here's the hat and I'll take the potion.  Thanks so much, now we're almost finished with our list."	Adventurer 1	
979	"What's the matter?  You don't like to work with others?  Fine then, you'll get no help from us."	Adventurer 1	
980	"Is this some sort of trick?  You don't even have a red potion.  You don't think I'll just give you the hat, do you?"	Adventurer 1	
981	"Good job, mates!  We'll be heading off for Harmondale right now.  Congratulations."		
982	Keep in mind I have a 1000 gold reward for the group to bring back information on the contestants that have disappeared.		
983	No news on the missing people yet?		
984	There really is a dragon on the island?  I thought everyone was referring to the dragonflies everywhere.  I'll warn everyone to stay away from that cave so we don't lose anyone else.		
985	"Hmm… I recall a few strangers poking around the entrance to the Dragon's Cave recently.  I didn't notice if they went inside, but I haven't seen them around since.  They must have realized how dangerous that place is and headed back to town."		
986	"The cave right behind my house is not the Abandoned Temple.  It belongs to Morcarack the Pitiless, the Dragon of Emerald Island.  He doesn't appreciate visitors, so I wouldn't advise going there.  The Abandoned Temple is buried in the hill south of my house.  You can get to it by entering the caves at the top of the hill."		
987	"Wild Dragonflies have infested the northwestern side of Emerald Island recently, making it dangerous to store things in our shed out there.  Dragonflies aren't terribly powerful, but they are fast and can even occasionally shoot fire at you.  Don't take them too lightly!"		
988	"The Dragon of Emerald Island lives in a cave in the northeast.  I wouldn't go there, though, he doesn't like visitors.  He spares our town so that we may pay him tribute, and in return he keeps pirates and undesirables out."		
989	"You're contestants in the Scavenger Hunt?  If so, I wouldn't wander off to the Dragon Cave, then.  Morcarack doesn't tolerate strangers very well.  I bet the missing people went there thinking his cave was the Abandoned Temple--they're probably long dead."		
990	"I'd watch those other contestants-- some of them seem ruthless.  One particularly nasty group headed to the north side of the island, and I haven't seen them since.  I'm surprised at the attention this contest has received, apparently people are hoping to get on the good side of the contestants for future favors if they win."		
991	"You have decided that you no longer desire my information about the places on Emerald Island.  If you later decide that you'd like to hear what I have to say, find me in the Two Palms tavern and then select Tour On."	Tour Off	
992	You have decided to listen to my tour about the points of interest on Emerald Island.  If you decide that you no longer want me to point out areas of interest then select Tour Off.	Tour On	
993	"Though the law may decide who is guilty and who is not, I decide who is called Thief, and who is just a criminal.  Bring me that lovely vase I saw on the mantle in Lord Markham’s manor, and I shall call you Rogue."	Rogue Promo first time	William Lasker
994	"Common criminals steal whatever catches their eye; Rogues steal what I tell them to steal.  I shall not grant titles to failures.  Return with Lord Markham’s Vase and I will promote all Thieves to Rogues, and all non-thieves to Honorary Rogues."	Return w/o vase	William Lasker
995	"Well done.  Stealing that vase took guts and skill.  I grant you the title of Rogue, and a small payment for your services. "	Return w/ vase	William Lasker
996	"You have chosen the path of Darkness, and I will promote you no further.  Perhaps an Assassin would have something to teach you.  I hear there is one in Deyja."	"Spy, party is evil"	William Lasker
997	"You are not quite ready to take the next step.  The time is fast approaching when you must decide whether to follow the path of light, or the path of darkness.  If you choose the Light, return to me to complete your training."	Not completed arbiter	William Lasker
998	"Your next task is somewhat more difficult…more suited for Spies than Rogues.  I have been asked to ensure that Watchtower 6, the only tower to survive the recent wars against the Necromancers, be unable to defend itself the next time it is attacked.  Killing the guards inside won’t help—the Necromancers will just fill it again with more troops.  The tower is on the southern edge of the Necromancers’ land.  I want you to slip inside and move the counterweight in the gatehouse at the top of the tower to the gatehouse at the bottom of the tower.  It is a heavy weight that can be found in a slot against the wall with a rope tied to it.  When the time comes for an attack, the misplaced weights will be noticed too late, and the gate will not close.  If you can do this, you will have proven your status as a Spy."	First time Spy	William Lasker
999	Um…The weight needs to go in the box in the lower gatehouse—not here.  Go back to Watchtower 6 and put the weight in the right box!	Return with weight	William Lasker
1000	"Hmm.  Removing the weight from the upper gatehouse was a start, but where is it now?!?  The plan won’t work unless you put the weight in the lower gatehouse!  Go back to Watchtower 6 and put the weight in the right box!"	No weight	William Lasker
1001	"You haven’t done the job yet!  Remember, you must go to Watchtower 6 and move the weight from the box in the upper gatehouse to the lower gatehouse.  I will not promote you until that is done. "	Done nothing	William Lasker
1002	"Good work!  Some day, your sabotage of that watchtower will save hundreds of lives.  For your services, I hereby promote the Rogues among you to the status of Spy, and the Honorary Rogues to Honorary Spies! Oh, and here’s some gold as payment. "	Success	William Lasker
1003	"So, Johann be wanting the Faerie Pipes, eh?  I can't say I'm surprised--he wouldn't come here himself, the coward.  The Pipes will cost you, though… all your food.  Of course, I've got some delightful food down below, should thee be wanting to restock your packs."	Pipes Quest	Faerie King
1004	Refreshing! (+50 Endurance temporary)	Drink Tea	Seknit Undershadow
1005	"So…you wish to become an Assassin.  Very well.  I can provide the Rogues among you the training necessary, but you must prove both your skill and your loyalty before I will invest time in you.  My superiors inform me that a certain Lady Eleanor Carmine’s life must end.  She used to work for us, but has taken up residence in the Celestial Court with our enemies, and is providing them with information damaging to our cause.  Silence her, and return with a trinket of hers to prove the job is done."	First time Assassin	Seknit Undershadow
1006	"You have chosen the path of Light, and therefore can never become an effective Assassin.  I cannot train you.  Perhaps you should continue a softer hearted training with the Spy."	Party good	Seknit Undershadow
1007	"I can turn a simple Rogue into a fearsome killer, but only if he has the right kind of temperament for the job.  The time is coming when you must choose to walk in the light, or in the dark.  If you prefer the shadow, come to me and I will complete your training."	No Arbiter	Seknit Undershadow
1008	"If you were looking for someone to train you in advanced stealth techniques, I  would be your man.  But you still need someone to teach you basic techniques.  Return to me when you achieve Rogue or Honorary Rogue status.  Then, perhaps, I can further your education.  Seek the Master Thief in the sewers of Erathia."	No Rogue	Seknit Undershadow
1009	"Without proof, I cannot assume Lady Carmine is dead.  Bring me proof, and I will honor you with the title of Assassin."	Fail	Seknit Undershadow
1010	"So, the job is done. [He examines the dagger slowly, then sighs.] She was very dear to me, but emotion is the enemy of reason.  I could not have done the job myself.  Thank you.  Truly now, you are Assassins.  The rogues among you, I will give special training to.  Here is a small payment to help cover the expenses you incurred on the job. "	Success	Seknit Undershadow
1011	"You don't have the tapestry yet, and the clock is ticking.  It would be prudent to keep to the task at hand rather than bothering me with your babble."		Niles missing message
1012	"Ha! So, thee wishes to take the test to be a crusader?  I cannot blame thee—the sense of pride one feels when one has accomplished a heroic deed is sublime!  The test is simple.  A dragon must be slain.  I know just the one—Wromthrax the Heartless!  He lives in a cave in Tatalia, and terrorizes the peasants who live near him when he’s home.  He should be in the cave this time of year.  Because this is probably thine first dragon, I will travel with thee to give thee pointers.  So, let us go forthwith, and spill this monster’s black blood!"	First time Crusader	Sir Charles Quixote
1013	"Hurrah!  The Dragon has fallen!  Truly thou art grand Crusaders in good standing, with a fine deed behind thee.  I would stay and sing songs of thy bravery with thee, but duty calls.  Surely we will meet again, Crusaders!"	Success	Sir Charles Quixote
1014	"We must finish our quest before I can name thee Crusaders, friends."	Fail	Sir Charles Quixote
1015	"I am pleased to see thee chose the path of Light, Crusaders!  A wrong has been committed, friends, and who else but us can put it right?  A wicked villain has kidnapped a fair maiden by the name of Alice Hargreaves.  His name is William Setag, and he has imprisoned her in his tower.  You must ride forthwith to put this villain to the sword and rescue sweet Alice!  If you succeed, you will truly be Heroes of the Land!"	First time Hero	Sir Charles Quixote
1016	"I will not have truck with thee further, scoundrel!  I see now thee hath chosen the path of Darkness.  Mayhaps thee should seek a villain like thyself for training."	Party evil	Sir Charles Quixote
1017	"Ah, fellow Crusaders!  I know thee thirsts for another task with which to hone thy Crusading skills, but first thee must pass a far more serious test.  Thee must agree to follow the Path of Light before I can help thee further.  You will know when you have made this choice.  Return to me then."	No Arbiter	Sir Charles Quixote
1018	"Thee’ve done it! I knew thee could do it!  I’m so proud of thee!  Alice has been freed of the clutches of the wicked William Setag, evil has been vanquished, and good upheld.  Where once there was wrong, now there is right! [Charles sighs and smiles broadly] Well.  My work here is done!  Thee have passed the tests and deserve thy reward.  Therefore do I solemnly declare thee Heroes! "	Success	Sir Charles Quixote
1019	"Though thy deeds remain impressive indeed, crusaders, I cannot declare thee Heroes until you have rescued the girl!"	Fail	Sir Charles Quixote
1020	Tsk tsk.  You haven't finished your training as a Crusader; I cannot instruct you until you show proper dedication.	No Crusader	William Setag
1021	"It should be impossible for you to see this right now.  If you are reading this, tell Bryan that the event and/or logic of this quest is messed up because you should either be good attempting the Hero quest, or evil attempting the Villain quest and you are apparently neither."	Error	Alice Hargreaves
1022	"Help!  William has captured me and imprisoned me in this tower.  Please get me out of here as quickly as possible, I don't want to die."	Rescue Me	Alice Hargreaves
1023	Thank you so much for helping me away from William's clutches.	Thanks for rescuing me?	Alice Hargreaves
1024	"Excuse me, but who might you be?  Hey!  Get your hands off of me!  Help!"	Who are you?	Alice Hargreaves
1025	Where do you think you're taking me?  I have a rich family-- you'll be in a lot of trouble if you don't let me go!	Where are you taking me?	Alice Hargreaves
1026	"Let's get down to business, shall we?  I know you are well aware of my standing as the blackest Villain in Erathia.  It requires effort and drive to prove to be this evil-- I hope you have the mettle for it.  I would love nothing more than to keep you in my training for years and teach you the finest parts of being a Villain.  Unfortunately, I am under pressure to speed up your tutelage.  To this end, I have a direct way to learn the arts of Villainhood.  There is a woman, Alice Hargreaves, who is of noble blood and pure character.  Capture this woman from her residence in Castle Gryphonheart. Return here and imprison her in my tower.  Complete this, and I shall promote all Crusaders in your group to Villains, and the rest of your group to Honorary Villains."	First time Villain	William Setag
1027	"I'd certainly love nothing more than to corrupt your obviously pious soul, but I'm afraid you wouldn't have the stomach to follow through with my teachings.  You have chosen the Path of Light, you will garner no assistance from me."	Party good	William Setag
1028	"Before you make this decision, you have a more pressing, immediate decision you will be forced to make.  If you choose the darker road, you may return to me and complete your training in the Paladins' arts."	No arbiter	William Setag
1029	"Capital!  You have shown dedication, daring, and the power of raw force.  Certainly the imprisonment of such a fair and noble creature in this wicked place earns you the right to be called a Villain-- or Honorary Villain.  Go now upon the world and make all fear your name."	Success	William Setag
1030	"Where's Alice?  I'm not asking for much, just a simple kidnapping.  Is it really that difficult?  I suggest you speed up your efforts."	Fail	William Setag
1031	"Ah, it is normal for novice Monks to ask for the path of enlightenment.  I shall tell you of the path, though the journey is yours to make.  In the Barrow Downs is a series of tombs-- one of which was constructed on a site of great natural power.  You will know the right barrow because it is different from the rest.  Reach this barrow and meditate by the water, and your promotion to Initiate will be complete."	First time Initiate	Bartholomew Hume
1032	"[Bartholomew Hume contacts you mentally] Congratulations, young ones.  My final lesson given to you as Monks is this:  enlightenment is gained by the journey, not the destination.  In this case, the destination was critical to prove that you were capable of the journey.  I shall now promote all Monks to Initiates and everyone else to Honorary Initiates-- congratulations."	Success	Bartholomew Hume
1033	You have not finished your journey.  Return to me only when you have completed your task.	Fail	Bartholomew Hume
1034	"I see you wish to continue your journey.  Excellent!  Have no fear, for you are prepared for your next step.  You must extinguish the remnants of an evil order- the Order of Baa.  Defeat their High Priest and return to me and I shall complete your training and promote you to Master."	First Time Master	Bartholomew Hume
1035	"I am sorry, but I am permitted to train you no longer.  You will need to find a new Master to learn from."	Party evil	Bartholomew Hume
1036	A fork approaches in your path.  I will only train you after you've chosen to walk the lighter path.	No arbiter	Bartholomew Hume
1037	I cannot improve upon training you do not already have.  You must be promoted to Crusader before I can train you in the ways of villainy.	No Crusader	William Setag
1038	"I am the one you need to speak with in order to join the Guild of the Elements.  The cost to join is 100 gold pieces.  Only members may purchase spells from our fine library.  The guild has spells from all four of the elemental disciplines, and like all guilds in the kingdom, we have two guild halls.  Membership in one automatically enrolls you in the other."		
1039	"It is my sacred duty to accept donations for the Guild of the Self.  If you contribute 100 gold pieces, we will grant you guild member status.  Members are permitted to buy spells from any Guild of the Self in the land."		
1040	Air is the element the sorcerers join the profession to learn!  We have all the best spells--including the glorious Fly spell.  Don't miss out on this fantastic opportunity to join the Air guild!  Just 50 gold!		
1041	Membership in the Guild of Earth will give you access to our excellent library of earth spells.  This membership is good for all Earth Guilds on the continent of Erathia.  The cost to join is but 50 gold pieces.		
1042	Why be subtle when you can learn Fire magic?  Joining our guild costs but 50 gold for a lifetime membership.		
1043	"Membership in the Guild of Water gives you the right to buy our spells of change and movement.  It's my job to recruit new members and collect membership dues from them.  The price is 50 gold, and that includes membership in all of our guild halls."		
1044	"I am the guild recruiter for the Guild of Body.  A lot of people think that our spells just heal the body, but some can damage the bodies of your opponents too.  The cost is 50 gold pieces."		
1045	"50 gold pieces buys you membership in the Guild of the Mind.  Why fight a monster yourself when you can get its friends to fight it for you?  Kills two birds with one stone, if you ask me.  Well, what do you say?"		
1046	"Many believe the most powerful magic to be Light magic, or Dark magic, or something destructive, like Fire.  We at the Spirit guild would like to point out that no magic besides Light magic can raise the dead, and even then it takes a Grandmaster in the element.  If you want power over life and death, choose Spirit magic.  The cost to join is but 50 gold pieces."		
1047	Light magic represents the most powerful magic a person can wield without cost to his soul.  We feel confident our price of 1000 gold pieces for guild membership is fair.  You won't regret your decision to pursue Light magic.		
1048	At last you have an opportunity to learn Dark magic by joining the Guild of the Dark.  Don't squander it!  Dark magic is the strongest magic.  The cost is only 1000 gold pieces.  You know it's worth it.		
1049	Join the Elemental Guild for 100 gold		
1050	Join the Self Guild for 100 gold		
1051	Join the Air Guild for 50 gold		
1052	Join the Earth Guild for 50 gold		
1053	Join the Fire Guild for 50 gold		
1054	Join the Water Guild for 50 gold		
1055	Join the Body Guild for 50 gold		
1056	Join the Mind Guild for 50 gold		
1057	Join the Spirit Guild for 50 gold		
1058	Join the Light Guild for 1000 gold		
1059	Join the Dark Guild for 1000 gold		
1060	You must be a member of this guild to study here		
1061	Not in your condition!		
1062	You're already a member of this guild.		
1063	You don't have enough gold!		
1064	You must first be an expert in this skill before you can become a master!		
1065	You must first be a master in this skill before you can become a grandmaster!		
1066	"You don't meet the requirements, and cannot be taught until you do."		
1067	You are already an expert in this skill.		
1068	You are already a master in this skill.		
1069	You are already a grandmaster in this skill.		
1070	You must know the skill before you can become an expert in it!		
1071	Missing Text 133	Roland 2	
1072	"Good work.  No longer shall the Order of Baa stain the lands of Erathia.  Now, allow me to promote all Initiates to Masters, and all Honorary Initiates to Honorary Masters.  Keep in mind that this is but a stop along the path of enlightenment.  Your journey only ends with your eventual death-- never close your mind."	Success	Bartholomew Hume
1073	"The Temple of Baa still stands, their High Priest still lives.  Until this is completed, you are not ready for the title of Master.  Go now and do not fail."	Fail	Bartholomew Hume
1074	"An agent of mine has sent me a message I need deciphered.  The cipher relies on knowing which word of which a certain book to match it against.  If you wish to become a Ninja, this is what you must do: Infiltrate the School of Wizardry and find out what the third word of the famed Scroll of Waves is.  Use it to decipher the message, then do what the message tells you to do.  It is the key to enter the Tomb of the Master.  You'll find the tomb in Southern Erathia.  [Stephan hands you a scrap of paper] Here is the encoded message."	First time Ninja	Stephan Sand
1075	"Ambition is good, but I only train experienced students.  Come back when you've achieved Initiate status, and perhaps I'll teach you…IF you have the right outlook.  If you're looking for someone who is willing to help you become an Initiate, perhaps you should start with that wimp Bartholomew Hume.  I'm sure he'd be willing to give you an elementary education."	Not initiate	Stephan Sand
1076	[Stephan Sand sneers] YOU want ME to teach you something?  You sniveling do-gooders make my knife arm twitch!  Get out of my sight before I REALLY teach you about fighting!	Party good	Stephan Sand
1077	"Though you have achieved initiate status, I am uncertain that you can stomach some of my more extreme teachings.  Return to me when you have formally rejected all philosophies that turn people into weaklings and cowards."	No arbiter	Stephan Sand
1078	"So you have the key, but you haven't followed the directions in the message.  Remember, the tomb is in Southern Erathia.  Complete your task, and return to me to report success.  If you can't complete your mission, don't bother returning to me.  Failure is pathetic."	"Key, no tomb"	Stephan Sand
1079	"[Sand sighs] Once again, the cipher key is the third word of the first paragraph of the Scroll of Waves.  You can find it somewhere in the School of Wizardry.  I don't care how you get in there--kill anyone who gets in your way, or sneak in.  Whatever you want.  The only thing that matters is success.  Everything else is an excuse for personal weakness."	No key	Stephan Sand
1080	"Well done.  No one can argue with success except apologists for the weak and the cowardly.  I hereby promote all Initiates to Ninjas, and all non-Initiates to Honorary Ninjas.  Oh yeah, go ahead and keep that little trinket you stole from the tomb.  This was just a training exercise, after all."	Success	Stephan Sand
1081	"A few generations ago, an enchanted bow was created by alchemists in the Tularean Forest to seal another peace treaty between the elves and the humans.  While en route to Erathia, the bow was taken from the couriers by the Titans in Avlee.  They have no use for the thing, so it's probably in their stronghold still.  Strike a blow for our profession, and get that bow back.  It is absolutely the finest thing of its kind ever made.  Oh, and while you're there, feel free to cut some of those bullies down to size--They stole it out of cruelty, not need!  If you are successful, I will promote all Warrior Mages to Master Archers, or honorary Master Archers, as the case may be."	First time Master Archer	Lawrence Mark
1082	"So, you've achieved the rank of Warrior Mage, and wish to advance to Master Archer!  A worthy goal, but I only promote those who's heart and courage match their skill.  Come back to me when you have firmly committed to the Light.  Then I will help you."	No Arbiter	Lawrence Mark
1083	"You have chosen the path of Darkness.  I will never help you improve, for fear you will use your skills to advance your selfish goals!"	Party evil	Lawrence Mark
1084	"I am the person to see if you want to become Master Archers, but you have come too soon!  You must have the proper background to become a Master, and that means first becoming a warrior mage.  Return when you are ready."	No Warrior Mage	Lawrence Mark
1085	"You found the bow!  Let me take some measurements and adjust it to your specific style of archery. Once I have finished you should keep it, and use it in defense the of the land and the people.  I am happy to promote all Warrior Mages to Master Archers, and all Honorary Warrior Mages to Honorary Master Archers."	Success	Lawrence Mark
1086	"No luck getting the bow?  Well, take your time, and plan your assault against the Titans carefully.  Against such powerful opponents, there is no shame in striking and retreating.  Do what you must to defeat these monsters."	Fail	Lawrence Mark
1087	"[Wheeze] So you think you can become Warrior Mages, do you?  It isn't easy.  You must be equally proficient in magical skills and physical skills.  There is a test of this.  Visit the Red Dwarf Mines.  Inside you will find two kinds of beasts--one that can be harmed only with magic, and one that can be harmed only with steel.  In the back of the lower section of the mines you will find a machine created by the Dwarves that powers the lift-- the only access between the upper and lower sections of the mines.  To keep the creatures trapped in the lower section, you will have to replace the belt in the machine with this one, a worn belt that will only last about an hour before breaking.  This should give you enough time to get to the lift and get out before you are trapped down there.  Seal away these creatures and return to me-- only then will I call you Warrior Mages."	First time Warrior Mage	Steagal Snick
1088	"Very Good.  You have passed the test.  Now the creatures are sealed away and won't be able to prey on the dwarves any longer, and you have proven your ability in both sorcery and steel.  I am proud to declare all Archers amongst you Warrior Mages, and everyone else Honorary Warrior Mages.  Congratulations!  Now get out.  I already weary of your company."	Success	Steagal Snick
1089	You haven't sabotaged the machine yet.  You must finish this before I'll promote you to Warrior Mage.	Fail	Steagal Snick
1090	"Getting ambitious, are we?  Think you can earn the title of sniper?  Perhaps you can.  Here is what you must do:  In the stronghold of the Titans is a very special bow that was meant as a peace offering from the elves to the humans to quell a conflict long since forgotten.  [Master Snick shakes his head] Gads! This peace stuff makes me nauseous!  In any case, fetch the bow for the good of our profession, and I'll promote you to Sniper.  [Heh] you better act like snipers if you expect to defeat the Titans.  A toe to toe...or should I say head to knee fight won't go well for you."	First time Sniper	Steagal Snick
1091	"Want to be a Sniper, eh? Maybe.  But I doubt you have the heart for it.  It needs to shrivel like a raisin and get hard as a stone to be able to do what you must.  Prove to me you are following the Path of Darkness, and then I will teach you further."	No arbiter	Steagal Snick
1092	"Following the Path of Light, are we?  How can you be a Sniper if you cry everytime you shoot someone in the back?  Maybe you should ask that lily-livered Lawrence Mark to help you.  I know that I will not."	Party good	Steagal Snick
1093	"You have the bow?!  Excellent!  It's been centuries since someone was brave enough to take on the Titans and try to get that bow back!  Let me take some measurements and adjust it to your specific style of archery.  I am proud to be the one to first call all Warrior Mages amongst you Snipers, and to say that all Honorary Warrior Mages are Honorary Snipers!  I must admit I didn't think you had it in you to succeed.  I am happy that I was wrong."	Success	Steagal Snick
1094	"More failure? [Master Snick yawns]  How surprising.  I'll make it simple--no bow, no title."	Fail	Steagal Snick
1095	"So you want to be champions, do you?  Ha!  How can you be a champion if you don't win any tournaments?  You know, I can't really promote you to Champion status--you have to do it yourself, just like everything else.  Go and win five championship tournaments in the Arena at Knight level, and come back to me.  I'll call you Champions then, if you want."	First time Champion	Leda Rowan
1096	"I can see you very much want to be called Champions, but I'm not so sure I should help you.  Prove to me that you follow the Path of Light, and then we'll talk about promotion."	No arbiter	Leda Rowan
1097	"Call you Champions?  Never!  The only reason I'm not hacking you evil doers to bits is that you came here peacefully.  Leave now, before I change my mind and rid the world of another problem."	Party evil	Leda Rowan
1098	"I am the person to talk to if you want to be called Champions.  First, though, you must practice.  Return to me when you've become Cavaliers.  Then, if you have the right outlook, I will tell you what you must do to become Champions."	No cavalier	Leda Rowan
1099	"Congratulations for you recent tourney victories, my friends!  I gladly name the Cavaliers among you Champions, and the Honorary Cavaliers I name Honorary Champions!  Always fight for the Light, Champions!"	Success	Leda Rowan
1100	"You have not yet won 5 championship tournaments in the Arena.  Return to me when you have won five, and I will promote you.  Remember, these battles MUST be at the Knight difficulty level."	Fail	Leda Rowan
1101	"The hallmark of the Cavalier is courage.  I can promote you to Cavalier status, but before I'll do that, you'll have to prove to me your bravery in battle.  Since most people are yellow bellied cowards at heart, I doubt you'll succeed.  But if you want to try, here is what you must do: Destroy all the undead in the haunted mansion in the Barrow Downs."	First time Cavalier	Frederick Og
1102	"So you're back!  And from the look on your faces I see you have finished the job.  Well done!  I hereby officially promote all Knights amongst you to Cavaliers, and everyone else to honorary Cavaliers.  Carry your title with pride!"	Success	Frederick Og
1103	"Did one little haunted house send you packing in fear?  I've seen chocolate eclairs with more backbone than you!  Get you gone, and don't come back 'til you've stiffened your spine!"	Fail	Frederick Og
1104	"So you think you can become Black Knights, do you?  Very well.  You know, I've heard many people say that criminals are cowards.  That just isn't true.  It takes a lot of courage to risk your life in a robbery, or in battle.  You've already proven you are courageous, and now it's time to put that courage and your skills to use.  I want you to rob the Elvish Treasury.  It's one of the biggest hoards of treasure in the land, and it is very well guarded.  Do the deed and abscond with the wealth.  Return to me when you've finished.  Then I will promote you to Black Knights."	First Time Black Knight	Frederick Og
1105	It's true that I am the one you go to when you're looking to be promoted to Black Knight status.  But how can you become a Black Knight when you haven't even decided whether or not you're evil?  Return to me when you have fully committed to Darkness.  Only then will I resume your training.	No arbiter	Frederick Og
1106	Bah!  You do-gooders are worthless!  It is impossible for me to teach anything more to you!  	Party good	Frederick Og
1107	"All RIGHT!  That robbery was brilliant!  I am very proud of you.  Keep the loot--it's your reward for a job well done.  I can safely say the Cavaliers among you have become Black Knights today, and I'll throw in an Honorary Black Knight title for the rest of you.  You've done well, my students!"	Success	Frederick Og
1108	Robbery not complete?  No.  Don't come to me and report failure.  Don't come and tell me you lost your nerve.  Get out there and rob that treasury!  Failure is not an option!	Fail	Frederick Og
1109	"Well, it looks like you might be able to do the job I have in mind.  The fundamental task a Ranger Lord faces is caring for the land.  Recently, poachers removed a magical gemstone called the ""heart of the forest"" from the Tularean Forest.  The forest has become restless, and attacks travelers who come too close.  The forest blames all 'Walkers' for the theft, and won't calm down until the stone is returned.  Find the stone and return it to the oldest tree in the Forest.  Come back to me when you've done this."	First Time Ranger Lord	Lysander Sweet
1110	"I would like to be your teacher--I really would, but I'm not sure you're cut out to be a Ranger Lord.  Soon you must make a decision of the heart.  If you choose the Path of Light, return to me.  I would be honored to be your teacher."	No arbiter	Lysander Sweet
1111	"[Lysander shakes his head, smiling gently] Too soon, eager ones.  I train only the most advanced students.  Seek me out again when you reach Hunter status."	No Hunter	Lysander Sweet
1112	[Lysander frowns] You've chosen the path of darkness.  I refuse to teach such as you--you would only use my lessons to further your selfish goals.  May Heaven have mercy on your souls.	Party Evil	Lysander Sweet
1113	"If you can't figure out where to start, you should try finding the oldest tree in the forest.  It should be somewhere outside of Pierpont in Avlee.  The oldest tree has the power of speech, and may know something helpful.  It will be happy to tell you whatever you want to hear, plus a whole lot more.  You'll see."	No tree	Lysander Sweet
1114	"Well, you've spoken with the tree, and now know as much as I do about the theft.  If you manage to find the stone, take it directly to the tree and then come see me."	Fail	Lysander Sweet
1115	"You've done a good thing, returning the Heart.  The forest is quieter now, and no longer attacks travelers.  You've probably saved many lives.  For service to the Land and the Light, I hereby promote all Hunters among you to Ranger Lords, and all honorary Hunters to honorary Ranger Lords!"	Success	Lysander Sweet
1116	"Think you can improve?  I have a test for you.  A hunter needs to understand the woods, and a hunter needs to be as skilled with magic as with a blade.  The best teachers for that are the faeries.  There's a faerie mound in Northern Avlee.  Figure out how to get in, and the Faeries will grant magic to the genuine rangers among you, meaning that they will be promoted to Hunter status.  The rest of you will be honorary hunters. "	First time Hunter	Ebednezer Sour
1117	"Foxed by the Faeries? [Ebednezer snickers, then begins to laugh uproariously at his own wit] Foxed?  Faeries?  Hahahah!  Get it?  Foxed… you know…ah ahahah.  Maybe not.  Well, I've already told you how to become Hunters.  Get inside the Faerie Mound in Avlee.  Now, stop bothering me!  "	Fail	Ebednezer Sour
1118	"Better a bounty hunter than a plain old hunter, huh?  Well, this test is even simpler than the Faerie Mound idea, and you won't have to think so hard.  Ever notice how the town halls are always looking for someone to kill a monster for them?  All you have to do is collect 10,000 in bounties from town halls.  When you've done that, come back to me, and I'll promote you to Bounty Hunters.  "	First time Bounty Hunter	Ebednezer Sour
1119	"I'll be blunt.  I don't think I like you.  You'll have to prove to me you're worth something.  Soon, you will have to choose if you'll follow the Path of Dark or the Path of Light.  If you choose Light, don't even bother speaking to me again.  Got it?"	No arbiter	Ebednezer Sour
1120	"Gahhh!  I can smell the stink of self righteousness on you!  Get away from me!  G'won, get!"	Party good	Ebednezer Sour
1121	"So, how did if feel?  All that killing?  Mmmmm.  Heh.  You qualify, my friends.  You definitely qualify.  All Hunters amongst you are now Bounty Hunters, and all Honorary hunters and Honorary Bounty Hunters!  Good job."	Success	Ebednezer Sour
1122	"Not yet, not good enough!  You need to collect more bounties, and more importantly, kill more creatures.  There's some good clean fun in that.  Killing, don't you know."	Fail	Ebednezer Sour
1123	"Come to my door looking for magic?  Thee've always had it, if thee knew where to look.  Some I tell this to, and they still can't see it, though it be plain as the nose on their face.  Those amongst thee that are simple Rangers are now Hunters, and those who aren't are but Honorary Hunters.  Clever the ones who can knock on my door!"	Hunter end promo	Faerie King
1124	"The thieves reached deep inside me to take my Heart.  The grapevines say they are hiding in the Mercenary Guild in Tatalia.  We would squeeze them, but they aren't close enough to reach.  Walkers are needed to catch walkers.  Catch the thieves for us.  Ok?"	First time Heart of Wood	Oldest Tree
1125	Ahhh!  [The tree sighs happily]  You have the heart!  The forest sings with joy!  Tonight we will recite the song of the ancestors.  Will you stay and recite with us?	Success	Oldest Tree
1126	"Oh, the forest is still very angry.  The grapevines say the thieves have not left their hiding place.  You will catch the thieves for us, won't you?"	Fail	Oldest Tree
1127	"Priests.  You have come to me seeking that I be your guide on the Path of Light.  But be warned, to learn its ways, you must learn the ways of your own soul.  I would suggest that we meditate on this for awhile, but you look like you're in a hurry.  South of Bracada is an island called Evenmorn, and upon that island are the old temples of the Sun and the Moon.  Both are inhabited by the remnants of the two religions, their once proud churches reduced to two old temples fighting for a small island.The Church of the Sun was the founding religion for our current faith, the Path of Light.  I propose we help them out and tip the balance in favor of the Church of the Sun.  Using the map that Daedalus Falk sent you to find in order to become priests, convince a sea captain to bring you to the island.  There, bring aid and comfort to the Church of the Sun by purifying the altar in the Church of the Moon.  This will so weaken the Moon cult that the Church of the Sun will be able to overcome them in battle.  Return to me when you have done this.   "	Fail	Oldest Tree
1128	"If you wish to follow the Path of Light, first you must formally choose it.  Soon you will be asked to make the choice, and the way will be clear.  Until then, I cannot be your guide."	No arbiter	Rebecca Devine
1129	"If you wish to become Priests of the Light, you must first become Priests.  I don't have time to train priests, but my bitter rival, Daedalus Falk, does.  Do not worry, he will promote you fairly, even if you do not wish to follow the terrible path of darkness that he represents."	No priest	Rebecca Devine
1130	"You've come to the wrong person if you want to be promoted beyond priest.  I am well aware of your choice to follow the Path of the Dark, and I will have nothing to do with you."	Party evil	Rebecca Devine
1131	"Your bravery has advanced our faith tremendously, Priests.  It's with a glad heart that I can hereby promote all Priests to Priests of the Light, and all honorary Priests to Honorary Priests of the Light.  Thank you so much for your help!"	Success	Rebecca Devine
1132	You must visit Evenmorn island and purify the Altar of Darkness in the Church of the Moon.  Only then can I promote you to Priests of the Light.	Fail	Rebecca Devine
1133	"[Falk gives you a grandfatherly smile] You have, perhaps, an ambition to be priests?  I can help you, if you'll help me.  There is an island south of Bracada where stands an old temple that I need to find again.  I think the pirates west of Erathia must know where the island is.  The Erathian navy is rather feeble, and hasn't been able to root them out of their hiding places amongst the Tidewater Caverns.  Perhaps the pirates have a map.  If you can bring me that map, I would promote you to Priest status immediately."	First time Priest	Daedalus Falk
1134	"The Map!  You found it!  [Falk looks at the map, and points at the island] There it is.  The island has been shrouded in mist since the Churches of the Sun and Moon began fighting over a century ago.  Keep the map--I have the coordinates now, and will have no trouble finding the place when I need to.  I am proud to declare the Clerics amongst you to be Priests, and the rest to be honorary Priests.  Thank you so much for your good work!"	Success	Daedalus Falk
1135	"If there is a map that says where that island is, the map would be in the Tidewater Caverns of western Erathia.  When you bring me that map, then I will be happy to promote you all to Priests."	Fail	Daedalus Falk
1136	"Priests.  [Falk gazes coldly at you] Well it is that you have come to see the wisdom of the Path of the Dark.  Never regret your decision, and never look back.  South of Bracada is an island called Evenmorn, and upon that island are the old temples of the Sun and the Moon.  Both are inhabited by the remnants of the two religions, their once proud churches reduced to two old temples fighting for a small island.The Church of the Moon was the founding religion for our current faith, the Path of Darkness.  I propose we help them out and tip the balance in favor of the Church of the Moon.  Using the map that I sent you to find, convince a sea captain to bring you to the island.  There, bring aid and comfort to the Church of the Moon by defiling the altar in the Church of the Sun.  This will so weaken the Sun cult that the Church of the Moon will be able to overcome them in battle.  Return to me when you have done this.   "	Fail	Daedalus Falk
1137	"If you wish to follow the Path of Darkness, first you must formally choose it.  Soon you will be asked to make the choice, and the way will be clear.  Until then, I cannot be your guide."	No arbiter	Daedalus Falk
1138	You must visit Evenmorn island and defile the Altar of Light in the Church of the Sun.  Only then can I promote you to Priests of the Dark.	Fail	Daedalus Falk
1139	"I am indeed the one to speak to if you wish to become Wizards.  Every student of mine must complete a project before I name them Wizards.  This year's project is to build a golem.  There are spare parts scattered about the lands from here to Avlee.  You'll need all four limbs plus the torso and the head.  Pay special attention to where you get the head--one of my students made a mistake while making a head last summer and gave the defective head away as a joke.  When you have all the parts, come talk to me.  I'll promote you to Wizards then, and I'll animate your Golem.  Well, on your way, and have fun!"	Fail	Daedalus Falk
1140	"[You proudly display your assembled golem to Master Grey, and he nods approvingly] Well done.  Head looks alright, but you can never be sure…Well, good work!  Clearly, you qualify for Wizard status.  All Sorcerers amongst you are now Wizards, and all non Sorcerers are now honorary Wizards!  [Master Grey spends awhile casting the spell that animates your golem] He's all yours!  Take him back to your castle and put him where you want.  He'll attack intruders relentlessly.  "	Success	Thomas Grey
1141	"Welcome back, students.  The golem lesson was just an exercise, but to advance to Archmage, you really have to do something for the profession.  Copies of the fabled Divine Intervention spell are very rare, and unfortunately the School doesn't have one.  There's been a history of bad luck regarding the spell.It has been around for time immemorial, but the spell has never found its way into our hands.  Always just out of reach, we often send guild members to find it, but every one has failed.  Sometimes they have it in their hands, but lose it on the way back, other times, the book seems to vanish, only to resurface 20 years later in some old dungeon, or on a deserted island.  Right now, we think it's in the Breeding Zone in the Pit.  Find the spell, and return with it.  Break the curse!"	Fail	Thomas Grey
1142	"Archmage training is reserved only for people dedicated to the Path of Light.  Prove to me you have chosen the right way, and I will be proud to be your teacher."	No arbiter	Thomas Grey
1143	"You've chosen Darkness, my students.  I will teach you no more."	Party evil	Thomas Grey
1144	"The book!  The book!  [Master Grey clutches his ears and spins around in joy] You did it!  Oh, what a wonderful day!  I am so proud of you!  You're all Archmages!  Of course, if you weren't Wizards to begin with, it's only an honorary title, but who cares?  You found the book!  [The Master sets the book down on a table next to a blank book.  Both open simultaneously, and quill arises from the desk to begin copying the text in the new book] You may keep the copy, and you should start seeing more copies in the Light guilds of Bracada and Celeste."	Success	Thomas Grey
1145	"I expect trouble finding the book, which is why I'm sending you to find it.  I know you can succeed in this mission.  Keep trying!"	Fail	Thomas Grey
1146	"Fear not death?  I can perform the Ritual on any Wizard.  You need a Soul Jar.  Years ago the Wizards stole a shipment of Jars en route from Nighon to Deyja.  The jars are very hard to destroy, so they hid them, thinking we would never be able to find them.Fortunately for us, dead men do indeed tell tales.  Better, in fact, than living ones--dead men never forget, never refuse to talk, and never lie.  So, we found the one who buried the Jars, and made him die.  He was very cooperative after his death, and said he hid them somewhere in the Walls of Mist for the Wizards in Celeste. Retrieve these jars and I will perform the Ritual on all Wizards amongst you.  The rest may become Honorary Liches, for what that's worth, in thanks for finding the extra Jars for us."	Fail	Thomas Grey
1147	"If you haven't even become Wizards yet, you aren't ready to become Liches.  Trouble me not 'til you're qualified."	No wizard	Halfgild Wynac
1148	Only followers of the Dark Path can become Liches.  You have not yet chosen the path.  Return when you choose Darkness.	No arbiter	Halfgild Wynac
1149	"Having chosen the path of Light, you are not suited to become Liches.  The Ritual would reject you, and you would die a real death.  If that is what you want, you certainly don't need my help…"	Party good	Halfgild Wynac
1150	"Jars.  Yessss.  You have helped us greatly.  Now for the Ritual.  [The Lich draws a knife, and approaches you]  This won't hurt a bit!  [The ritual actually hurts quite a bit, and takes several hours to complete.  When it is over, the Lich speaks again]  So, now it is done.  Those among you who were Wizards are now most certainly Liches.  Those who were not, have my gratitude for returning the jars, and I will call you ""Honorary Liches"".  Remember, Liches must keep their Soul Jars with them at all times while they travel.  You cannot be separated from your Jar for long, or you will die a real death."	Success	Halfgild Wynac
1151	"I have no spare Jars with which to perform the Ritual.  It is impossible for me to promote you until you return with the Jars.  Remember, each one of you must have a Jar to be Promoted."	Fail	Halfgild Wynac
1152	"Advancement as a Druid is simple.  You must visit the three ancient temples to nature we erected centuries ago and pray at their centers.  They are in Tatalia, Evenmorn Isle, and Avlee, and look like circles of stone with an altar of water in their centers.  Where exactly I will not say, but exploring the land about them is part of the process.  When you have visited all three Circles, return to me to detail your experience."	First time Great Druid	Anthony Green
1153	"Visit the Circles, then return to me.  That is the process.  "	No stonehenges	Anthony Green
1154	"You've found a circle!  Very good, but you must find all three before you will be ready for promotion.  Remember, circles three, then return to me."	At least one stonehenge	Anthony Green
1155	"I have only to look into your eyes to see where you've been.  You have seen the circles, and they have left their imprint upon you.  Telling you that all Druids amongst you are now Great Druids is but a formality.  Telling the rest of you that you're now honorary Druids is showing you respect for the respect you have shown me and my faith.  "	Success	Anthony Green
1156	"To be named an Arch Druid, you must serve the land.  I know of a service you could perform.  In the land above Stone City, where the Dwarves bury their dead, is the barrow of King Zokarr IV.  He died fighting in defense of Stone City during the invasion of Erathia by Nighon.  His remains were never recovered and still lie in those tunnels.    Retrieve his bones and place them in his coffin in his barrow.  When you have done this, the King will rest, and so will the land.  Return to me when you've performed this service, and I will perform the Ceremony of Ascension and name you Arch Druids."	Success	Anthony Green
1157	I am dedicated to the service of the Light.  I will not promote you further until you are as dedicated as I.  Come back to me when you choose the Light.	No arbiter	Anthony Green
1158	"Servants of Darkness, I am sorry I promoted you earlier.  I am ashamed I didn't notice the darkness in your souls until it was too late.  Leave me."	Party evil	Anthony Green
1159	"[Master Green seems beside himself with joy at your accomplishment] I felt the King's soul return to the land of the dead when you returned his bones.  The land breathed a sigh of relief--did you feel it?  The Ceremony of Ascension is complete.  I'm happy to promote all Great Druids amongst you to Arch Druids, and all honorary Great Druids to Honorary Arch Druids.  This is a very happy day!  Your service will be remembered!"	Party evil	Anthony Green
1160	"The Service is not easy, but it needs to be done.  Remember, you must bring the bones of King Zokarr IV from where they lie in the tunnels between Stone City and Nighon to Zokarr's coffin in a secret dwarven barrow.  Only then can I perform the Ceremony of Ascension and promote you."	Fail	Anthony Green
1161	"Becoming a Warlock for some is a simple process, and for others it is nearly impossible.  You need to find a familiar suited to your personality.  The familiar will help to focus your magical abilities and sharpen your concentration.  Sometimes a single familiar can be shared, other times not.  The magical effects will not be noticed by anyone but a Great Druid--someone who is already attuned to nature.  Now, let me see what kind of familiar you will need...[Tor picks up an elaborately carved gem and peers at you through it.  He frowns.]  Hmm.  Well, the good news is that you all need the same familiar, and when you find it, you will be very powerful.  The bad news is that you need to find a dragon familiar.  You must find a dragon egg.  Bring them back here and I will hatch it, and cast the familiar spell.  The baby dragon will imprint to you all, and you to it.  You may be able to find an egg in a dragon cave in the Land of the Giants.  'Ware the mother, though."	Fail	Anthony Green
1162	"I would love to get you started on the way to becoming Warlocks, but nothing I can do for you will be of any use until you become Great Druids.  Return when you have achieved that level of understanding."	No Great Druid	Tor Anwyn
1163	"Though I like to think of the Warlocks as being followers of the Path of Twilight, or Dawn, we are technically followers of the Path of Darkness.  You must be dedicated followers of Darkness before I can help you.  "	No arbiter	Tor Anwyn
1164	"Hmmmm.  [Tor looks at you carefully]  Nope.  Can't teach you.  You chose the Path of Light.  I can smell it on you.  I can sympathize with your choice, but I know that none of our spells or rituals can promote you once you have started down that path.  Sorry."	Party good	Tor Anwyn
1165	"[Tor looks at you in astonishment] You really found a dragon egg!  It's been more than a century since any Warlock has both needed and found a dragon familiar!  This will go down in the history books, that's for sure!  My spell book!  I need my book!  Ah, here it is.  [Tor chants a spell from the book, then taps the egg three times.  The egg hatches, and a baby dragon crawls out of the shell]  There you are!  Awww, isn't he cute?  Congratulations!  No longer are you simple Great Druids, but Warlocks!  Of course, that's just an honorary title if you weren't a natural Great Druid to begin with, but nonetheless, something to be proud of.  "	Success	Tor Anwyn
1166	You need to bring me a dragon's egg so you I can hatch your familiar.  There is no way around this.  Try looking in the Land of the Giants for a dragon cave-- perhaps there you can find an egg.	Fail	Tor Anwyn
1167	You prepare the torso for assembly with the rest of the parts.	Golem torso	Golem
1168	You prepare the left leg for assembly with the rest of the parts.	Golem left leg	Golem
1169	You prepare the right leg for assembly with the rest of the parts.	Golem right leg	Golem
1170	You prepare the left arm for assembly with the rest of the parts.	Golem left arm	Golem
1171	You prepare the right arm for assembly with the rest of the parts.	Golem right arm	Golem
1172	You prepare the head for assembly with the rest of the parts.	Golem head	Golem
1173	You prepare the head (with a dent in it) for assembly with the rest of the parts.	Golem Abbey head	Golem
1174	You have no parts to assemble yet.	No parts	Golem
1175	You have all the parts together!  Now you just have to return to Master Grey for the animation process.	All parts	Golem
1176	You remove the normal head and replace it with the dented head.	Swap normal for Abbey	Golem
1177	You remove the dented head and replace it with the normal head.	Swap Abbey for normal	Golem
1178	"You should not be reading this message.  This means that you somehow have triggered this event without holding the normal or Abbey normal Golem heads which, based on the preconditions for this event, is absolutely impossible.  Please tell Bryan that he lost his bet and owes Keith 5 bucks because this event doesn't work properly."	Error	Golem
1179	"Thank heavens you've cleaned them out!  Now we need to find a way to clean up the castle and rebuild the damaged sections.  The only people I can think of who would have the inclination and the ability to do this are the Dwarves in Stone City, located in the Barrow Downs to the south.  The entrance to Stone City lies in the center of the Barrow Downs on one of the largest hills.  "	Success	Butler
1180	"I fear that talking will fail with these goblins, my lords.  May I suggest violence?"	Fail	Butler
1181	"So…The new lords of Harmondale I have before me.  Not impressed.  Doubt other kings think much of you either.  Hrmph.  Probably get yourselves killed soon.  But maybe there's more than meets the eye here.  Yes.  Maybe you can do something for me, and I for you.  Medusas have taken my mines in eastern Bracada.  Turned a few of my people to stone.  Dangerous monsters, don't want to lose more lives on a rescue.  Ok to lose yours though.  Take this elixir and pour it on the statues.  Wake them up.  Then I will fix up your castle.  Give you respect.  Go now, and beware the griffins in Bracada.  "	Fail	Butler
1182	"Welcome back, Lords of Harmondale!  Now, I will help you.  My engineer will work for you.  Fix up your castle.  You have my thanks.  You are welcome here forever.Hmmph.  One more thing.  Your work has interested the other courts.  They will send ambassadors to you now--check your throne room.  Watch your back, my friends."	Dwarf King	Butler
1183	"Back again, eh?  Your part of the bargain isn't finished.  No help 'til you're done.  "	Fail	Dwarf King
1184	"Your Queen wishes to speak with you as soon as possible.  Since the War, she has taken up residence at Gryphonheart Castle in Steadwick.  This is strictly business--whenever new lords assume their office she meets with them to make sure there are no misunderstandings.  Queen Catherine is particularly interested in you, and has told me she wishes to employ your services."	Talk to my boss	Ellen Rockway
1185	I've received word that you met with the Queen.  I hope it went well.	Talked to my boss	Ellen Rockway
1186	"The queen is very pleased with you!  The rescue operation went well, and Loren can no longer be held as a bargaining chip for that wicked King Parson!  When the current Harmondale conflict is over, I'm sure the Queen will reward you for your aid."	Finished my quest	Ellen Rockway
1187	"The Queen tells me your loyalty is very strong.  You did the right thing when you informed the Queen of the treachery King Parson was plotting.  And I'll tell you this:  Your loyalty is not only strong, but it is well placed.  Harmondale is the rightful province of Erathia, despite Elvish claims to the contrary.  Your work for us helps to ensure that Harmondale will forever be in the hands of Humans."	Betrayed the other side	Ellen Rockway
1188	"[Lady Ellen gasps in delight] You have Gryphonheart's Trumpet!  This is wonderful!  When it disappeared from the strongbox, we thought it had been stolen by the enemy!  Thank you for bringing it back to us!"	Artifact	Ellen Rockway
1189	"Gryphonheart's Trumpet was no doubt stolen by the Elven raiding party.  You were too late to save it.  [Lady Ellen sighs] Well, this is bad, but I suppose we've suffered much worse disasters."	Failed the quest	Ellen Rockway
1190	I've learned from Queen Catherine that you betrayed us with the old false prisoner trick.  [Lady Ellen curtsies respectfully] Your skills in the art of deception are formidable.  I will be sure not to be tricked so easily by your sincere manner again.	Betrayed us	Ellen Rockway
1191	"Though Avlee is not currently in charge of Harmondale, my King, Eldrich Parson of Avlee, lays claim to this territory as our rightful domain.  The reasons are complicated, but boil down to the simple fact that Erathia stole our land in the Timber Wars many years ago, and we will not give up until we have it back.  My King wishes to speak with you.  Please travel to Pierpont in the Tularean Forest and meet with him.  We will make it worth your while."	Talk to my boss	Alain Hani
1192	Messengers have informed me of your visit with my King.  I hope you can see now why we are the rightful rulers of Harmondale.  	Talked to my boss	Alain Hani
1193	"I've heard of your daring infiltration of Fort Riverstride, and I am impressed!  Our strategists are analyzing the plans now, and they say the information will be very useful in any assault they mount against the Fort.  You have Avlee's gratitude!"	Finished my quest	Alain Hani
1194	"Word from Court is that you rejected a request from Erathia to break that spy Loren Steel out of prison.  Not only that, you helped us plant a false prisoner who has been feeding them misinformation ever since he got there.  Avlee is in your debt!"	Betrayed the other side	Alain Hani
1195	"You have Gryphonheart's Trumpet!  Excellent!  We lost track of it during the raid, and were afraid that one of the Erathians got away with it.  Thank you very much for your help!"	Artifact	Alain Hani
1196	"It seems our raid on the Erathians has failed, and they or someone else got away with the Trumpet.  [Ambassador Alain shakes his head sadly] Maybe next time things will go our way."	Failed the quest	Alain Hani
1197	"I've received a warning from my superiors regarding your delivery of falsified plans from Erathia.  The King is not amused. And there was some concern that you had more treachery in store for us.  [Alain smiles, true to his profession] All's fair in love and war, so it's all water under the bridge, eh?  Yes, all is forgotten.  [The ambassador chuckles heartily].  "	Betrayed us	Alain Hani
1198	"[Queen Catherine inclines her head regally] You are the lot that won Lord Markham's silly contest, I see.  I must admit I had little faith until the Dwarf King recognized you as the rightful rulers of Harmondale.  You must have done something to win his respect, or he would have nothing to do with you.  I'm still not sure what he saw in you, but perhaps there really is something of substance here.  We shall see.Maybe you can do something for me that would make me think I should let you keep your new titles.  Recently, a valuable...agent of mine was arrested in the Tularean Forest for merely doing his job.  They're keeping him in a cave somewhere outside of Pierpont.  His name is Loren Steel, and they are threatening to execute him if certain unacceptable conditions are not met in 28 days.  Return with him before then and you will win respect, gold, and gratitude."	Betrayed us	Alain Hani
1199	"[Catherine stands and smiles] Good job!  You've really solved a terrible dilemma for me.  [Catherine turns to Loren and shakes his hand] Loren.  It's good to meet you at last.  Since everyone knows who you are now, you're not much good to me as a spy, but I would like to offer you a job in the Royal Diplomatic Corps.  Please give it some thought.  As for our heroes, you have my thanks.  My purser will credit your bank account with 5000 gold pieces for your services.   "	Success	Queen Catherine
1200	"Loren's life is on the line.  I cannot give into the Elvish demands, or many more lives will be lost.  Please hurry.  I'm sure Avlee will execute him on schedule."	Fail	Queen Catherine
1201	"[Catherine stands and smiles] Good job!  You've really solved a terrible dilemma for me.  [Catherine turns to the false Loren and shakes his hand] Loren.  It's good to meet you at last.  Since everyone knows who you are now, you're not much good to me as a spy, but I would like to offer you a job in the Royal Diplomatic Corps.  Please give it some thought.  As for our heroes, you have my thanks.   "	Betrayal	Queen Catherine
1202	[The Queen's eyes narrow] What's this?  You're admitting to treachery?  How noble.  Guards!  Off with their heads!	Fake prisoner	Queen Catherine
1203	"King Parson asked you to steal the floor plan to Fort Riverstride?  Hmmm.  [Catherine turns to one of her advisors] Have some false plans of Fort Riverstride drawn up.  Make it painful.  [She turns back to you] If it's plans he wants, it's plans he'll get.  Give these plans to the King.  I'm sure he'll be grateful.  Make sure you don't let him know they're fake.  [After awhile the advisor returns with the plans and gives them to you]  You'll need to get the plans back to him on time, of course.  I'm sure he plans to attack us soon."	First time Riverstride plans	Queen Catherine
1204	"He took the plans?  Excellent!  I'll have the Riverstride commander roll out the red carpet for them.  As for you, I've instructed my purser to deposit 5,000 gold pieces in your account."	Success	Queen Catherine
1205	"First, you need to speak to Gavin Magnus in Celeste and complete his training.  After you have proven your ability and loyalty you will learn more about your role in the future of Erathia."	Hint - Proving Ground	Good Arbiter
1206	"Each of Gavin's advisors has a task for you.  Talk to Resurectra, Sir Caneghem, and Crag Hack for more information.  Do not fail in these missions- in them rests the balance of the future."	Hint - Tasks	Good Arbiter
1207	"Robert the Wise has a regrettable, but necessary, mission for you to complete.  For any of our plans to continue, this mission must succeed.  Prepare most carefully for the task, or you invite certain failure."	Hint - Kill Opposing person	Good Arbiter
1208	"The Kreegan, the Devils, and their leader Xenofex must be destroyed completely for the plan to have any long-term benefit.  You will find their 'hive' in the Land of the Giants."	Hint - Get devil part	Good Arbiter
1209	To the west of Avlee lies the craft that Resurectra and her associates used to come to Erathia.  Visit the ship and retrieve the Oscillation Overthruster to insure our victory.  Make sure to be properly outfitted for the journey.	Hint - Do the ship	Good Arbiter
1210	Bring the Oscillation Overthruster back to Resurectra immediately!  Every moment wastes valuable time!	Hint - Return piece	Good Arbiter
1211	"The Test involves entering the 'front door' of the Walls of Mist, and exiting through the 'back door'.  I use the word 'door' loosely--you'll see when you get there.  You will not need your weapons.  You will fail the test if you kill any creature in the Walls of Mist.  If you can complete this task, you will be given membership in the Guild of Light. Good luck."	First Time Good Proving Grounds	Gavin Magnus
1212	"You passed the Test!  That's quite an achievement--few succeed as quickly as you did.  My advisors are now eager to speak to  you; they can be found in the four houses on the eastern side of Celeste.  Once again, congratulations!"	Success	Gavin Magnus
1213	"Remember, you must enter through the front door of the Walls of Mist, and exit through the back door.  You must not kill any creatures in the Walls of Mist.  When you have done this, return to me."	Fail	Gavin Magnus
1214	"We need your help retrieving half of a key to a very important place from our enemies, the Necromancers.  Like us, they have enshrined their half of the key in their highest temple--The Temple of the Dark.  I'm under no illusions this will be easy.  Take your time and act when you're prepared.  Also, bring our half of the key to us, as well.  It is enshrined in the Temple of the Light.  Since you're our ally, no one should trouble you when you go there to fetch the key.  By the same token, please don't harm any of them, either."	First Time Temple of Dark	Resurectra
1215	"No key halves yet, I see.  Well, take your time.  It must be done eventually, and sooner is better than later, but later is better than being chained to an altar and sacrificed by the High Priest of the Dark in one of their bloody rituals.  Just bring back both halves of the key from the temples of Dark and Light, and try not to get yourselves killed doing it."	Fail	Resurectra
1216	"Well, I'm glad you found our half of the key, but you still need their half.  Hold onto it until you get the other half.  When you have both halves, return to me.  I will make them whole."	Light not Dark	Resurectra
1217	"Good work on retrieving their half of the key, but you still need ours.  It is located in the Temple of the Light here in Celeste."	Dark not Light	Resurectra
1218	"I knew you could do it!  Never doubted you for a second!  [You hand her the key halves, and she joins them by running a finger along the crack between them.  It mends before your eyes, good as new] Finally!  One piece of the plan is in place.  Your assistance has been invaluable.  We are already in your debt, and I expect we'll be even deeper in debt before our plan comes to fruition.  So have faith in us awhile longer--the future we're planning will astound you!"	Success	Resurectra
1219	"Our plans rapidly approach their conclusion, but there is a hitch.  The Kreegan--also known as the Devils, or the Demons, must be destroyed before we finish our plans.  They represent a terrible threat, and though they do little but lick their wounds today, will one day regain their strength and devastate the world.  If anything we do is to have lasting effect, we must first destroy these monsters for once and for all.You are strong, but not strong enough to defeat the devils on your own.  They are vulnerable to the brand of magic most commonly wielded by the Necromancers, and less so by our own Wizards.  It is imperative that you infiltrate the Devil's base and kill their leader Xenofex.  That should end their threat to this world for some time.  The Warlocks have dug a tunnel from their volcano to the Land of the Giants-- the land the Devils claim as their own.  Perhaps you can use that."	Success	Resurectra
1220	"YOU ARE HEROES!!!  Your work against the devils was masterful!  And the rescue of King Roland was as delightful as it was unexpected.  History will never forget your names for doing what you just did!  I, for one, am very proud to know you.  "	Success	Resurectra
1221	"I guess there's no hurry getting this job done, but we don't want the Necromancers to grow bored waiting for us to do our part and destroy the blocker.  So, please, as soon as you feel ready you must attack the Devils.  Remember that the Warlocks have dug a tunnel from their volcano to the land of the Devils.  You should be able to use that to get yourselves there."	Fail	Resurectra
1222	"Our allies in Tatalia have been complaining for some time of a mysterious presence.  There have been numerous deaths and disappearances for the last few months, and they've asked us if we knew anything about it.  I think I do.  I suspect a vampire is preying on Tatalia.  I don't have time to pursue the question myself, but to keep our allies happy, I'm asking you to please look into it.  It's possible the monster's presence has deeper implications than just bad luck for Tatalia."	First Time Vampires	Crag Hack
1223	"Just as I suspected!  Good work.  With the death of the Vampire, Tatalia can sleep a bit easier now.  Queen Catherine is grateful as well, and has been making moves to further strengthen the ties between Bracada and Erathia."	Success	Crag Hack
1224	"Keep looking for that Vampire.  I'm sure that's our problem, and he must be somewhere in or near Tatalia.  "	Fail	Crag Hack
1225	"The plan involves stealing the soul jars the Necromancers rely on to prolong their miserable lives.  They have them hidden somewhere in their Guild Castle, and are probably not prepared for the kind of small scale assault you people are so good at.  A quick strike--in and out--should do the trick.  Don't hang around the castle too long, or reinforcements will arrive, and try to get it right the first time, or they will permanently double their patrols.  Once you have the soul jars, bring them back here so we can dispose of them properly."	First Time Soul Jars	Sir Caneghm
1226	"[Sir Caneghem looks at the jars curiously, as though observing a poisonous snake behind glass] So these are soul jars.  I expected something more…impressive, I suppose.  Good job!  [he takes the case of jars] I will make sure these jars are never seen again."	Success	Sir Caneghm
1227	Be well prepared when you go for the jars.  Their security won't be so lax if you have to retreat and return.  	Fail	Sir Caneghm
1228	"Our counterparts, the former advisors to Archibald, each carry a token called a command cube on their person that we absolutely must acquire to complete the Goal.  There is no way any of them will part with their cube willingly, which means that we must get it some other way.  You will have to take it from one of them, and we think the easiest would be Tolberti.  Unlike the rest of them, he disdains proper security and has taken up residence in one of the apartments in the Pit.  I need you to infiltrate the pit again and get the cube from him.  Be careful--he is well armed and much tougher than he appears.  When you have the Cube, return to me.  We have but a short distance to the Goal, and all will be revealed very soon."	First Time Tolberti	Robert the Wise
1229	"[Robert takes the cube] Once again, you succeed!  The Goal is so close!  I know you have many questions, and I'm sure Resurectra will answer them all, after you do just one more mission for her.  You will find her with Gavin Magnus in the throne room of Castle Lambent."	Success	Robert the Wise
1230	"Keep trying to find his apartment.  Tolberti has never really believed anything bad could happen to him, and so far he's been right.  We need to prove him wrong.  Take the cube any way you can.  If you can do it without violence, fine.  If you must kill him, well, that's O.K. too.  Just get the cube."	Fail	Robert the Wise
1231	"We need your help retrieving half of a key to a very important place from our enemies, the Wizards.  Like us, they have enshrined their half of the key in their highest temple--The Temple of the Light.  It'll be a snap.  Most so called good people spend more time defending and healing themselves than delivering damage.  How can you win if you don't fight?  Anyway, take your time and act when you're prepared.  Also, bring our half of the key to us, as well.  It is enshrined in the Temple of the Darkness.  Since you're our ally, no one should trouble you when you go there to fetch the key.  But if you feel like you need the practice, go ahead a take a whack at some of them.  They're not very important, and most of them can regenerate from even the most severe injuries.  Try it--it's alot of fun!"	Fail	Robert the Wise
1232	"No key halves yet?  Bah!  I hope you're more competent than you seem right now!  How hard can this be?  All you have to do is burst in the front door and start shooting.  When there's no one left, you can clean their place out at your leisure.  Just hurry up and bring us both key halves."	Fail	Kastore
1233	"Well, I'm glad you found our half of the key, but you still need their half.  Hold onto it until you get the other half.  When you have both halves, get back over here and I'll fix them."	Light not Dark	Kastore
1234	"Finally!  I was beginning to wonder if you might have got yourselves killed already.  Well, no matter.  You forgot to get the key from the Temple of the Dark, so be on your way.  When you have it, return to me so I can make the two halves whole again."	Dark not Light	Kastore
1235	"Excellent!  [Kastore takes the two halves of the key and bangs them together.  With a bright white flash, they join together seamlessly]  The first part of the Plan is complete.  I knew we, uh, Archibald made the right decision in trusting you!  "	Success	Kastore
1236	"Soon our plans will bear fruit, but there are a few details that must be handled before we are ready.  The Kreegan, also known as the Devils, share this world with us.  The only reason we're sharing is because they are weak right now.  If they ever get strong, they will try to kill every person in the world.Anyway, it's no fun to rule a world full of dead people, so we have to kill the Devils before they kill us.  Our plan is for you to infiltrate the Devils lair and destroy their leader, Xenofex.  The warlocks of Nighon have dug a tunnel from their volcano to the Land of the Giants-- the land of the Devils.  You can probably use that tunnel to get there."	Success	Kastore
1237	"THAT WAS AWESOME!  You did it!  And now the single greatest threat to our plans is gone!  We will be Kings of the World!  [Kastore throws his head back and laughs wildly] AHAHAHAHAHA!!!!! Ah ha ha. Yes.  Well, good job.  I'll even forgive you for letting that King Roland character go free--we could have used him as a bargaining chip, you know.  [he shrugs] you probably didn't have a choice, I suppose.  In any event, this is a happy day!  "	Success	Kastore
1238	"Could you please hurry up with this raid against the Devils?  Archibald has promised forces, but they won't be available forever.  What's worse, the devils breed faster than rabbits.  The longer you wait, the more you'll have to fight."	Fail	Kastore
1239	"Archibald has asked us to find a source of soul jars for his necromancers.  These are the jars that are needed to complete the Ritual that gives them eternal life, and we're almost out.  There are far more candidates for Lichdom than we have jars, so some of our necromancers are facing the grim possibility of real death.  The makers of the jars are the Warlocks.  Go to them and convince them to give us the jars.  If they won't hand them over, take the jars by force-- I'm done negotiating prices with them."	First Time Soul Jars	Maximus
1240	[Maximus takes the case of jars with obvious delight] Nice work.  I won't even ask what you had to do to get them.  Success speaks for itself.  	Success	Maximus
1241	"You don't have to be nice about getting the jars from them--just get the jars any way you can.  We can renegotiate peace with them if we must, just like we renegotiate the price for each purchase of soul jars."	Fail	Maximus
1242	"Lord Archibald has another request--the creatures that have inhabited Clanker's laboratory must be evicted--and the teleport shield brought down.  The laboratory is on an island east of Pierpont in the Tularean Forest.  Be careful--the monsters in that lab were created by Clanker himself, and some of them are much more powerful than their more common fellows elsewhere in the world.  Take whatever you like from the place.  Lord Archibald is only interested in the real estate and the laboratory equipment.  Once the shield is down, Lord Archibald will be able to begin moving necromancers and equipment inside via Lloyd's Beacon. "	First Time Clanker's Lab	Dark Shade
1243	It's good to see we can count on you.  So few of our allies are as reliable and capable as yourselves.  Thank you very much for your aid.	Success	Dark Shade
1244	"This is a simple task--get a move on!  Once again, the laboratory on an island east of Pierpont in the Tularean Forest.  Get the shield lowered, and your part of the job is done."	Fail	Dark Shade
1245	"Just as Archibald has us, King Magnus of Bracada has his advisors.  And, just like us, each of them wears a small token called a command cube.  We need one of their cubes, and they're not going to just hand one over to us.  We must take one of their cubes, and we have decided it should be Robert the Wise who suffers.  One of our spies in their castle has damaged the lock to his room.  They have been lax about replacing it, so you should have no trouble going through the door.  I don't care if you kill him or not--just get the cube and return to me at once."	First Time Robert	Tolberti
1246	"[Tolberti takes the cube] This brings us very close to completing our Plan.  I know Kastore hasn't told you exactly what the Plan is, but you'll like it, I'm sure!  I am not allowed to say much, but I can tell you your position will be much higher than simply Lords of Harmondale, you can count on that!  You will find Kastore in his place on the throne of Castle Gloaming."	Success	Tolberti
1247	"What's wrong?  Don't tell me you're losing your nerve?  He's tough, but not immortal.  You can take him!  I wouldn't have sent you on this mission if I didn't think you could handle it."	Fail	Tolberti
1248	"Yes, the test.  It's simple.  Near the center of the city is a place we call the Breeding Zone.  There's a lot of foul monsters in the pit, and they regenerate constantly.  It makes for a good source of slaves, spare parts, and target practice.  All of our necromancers are tested there when they want to rise above the level of initiate.  I'm sure you'll pass the test.  Just jump in the pit and find a way out.  Kill anything you want down there.  Show no mercy.  When you escape, crawl out of the pit and come see me again.  If you complete this, I will give you membership in the Guild of Dark. *If* you complete this..."	First Time Breeding Pit	Archibald
1249	"You show promise, my friends.  A fine performance.  I think it will be sufficient proof of your skill for my advisors.  They are quite eager to assign tasks to you now; they can be found in the four houses in the western side of the Pit.  And don't worry.  Rewards will follow, of course."	Success	Archibald
1250	"I am beginning to suspect my allies were right about you.  Can't you pass this simple test?  Are you too afraid, or too feeble to succeed?  Perhaps we need new allies?"	Fail	Archibald
1251	"The time has come to achieve our Goal.  The reason we have sent you on all these missions is simple:  we have been busy gathering the parts needed to open a gate to the Ancients--the ones who colonized this world ages ago.  Unfortunately, our former compatriots also seek those parts for their own dark dreams.  They wish to rebuild the Heavenly Forge from the times before the Silence, and use it to duplicate the weapons we brought with us to your world.  We have been competing with them for these parts, but at last we have what we need.  Except for one thing.  We have been unable to find the Oscillation Overthruster on your world.  All would be lost, but there is one such device aboard the Lincoln--the vehicle that brought us to your world.  It is in the sea west of Avlee and secured against entry, even from ourselves.  Now you must wear our environment suits, enter the ship, and return with the Overthruster; you will find these suits in the chest outside this throne room.  For the suit to function properly you must not be wearing any equipment.  As for us, we must stand watch at the gate, and battle our former comrades.  "	Fail	Archibald
1252	"You have returned!  At last!  We have the Overthruster.  Now, come with us as we open the way to the Ancients!"	Success	Resurectra
1253	Don't forget you'll need the wetsuits to get to the Lincoln.  These suits are in the chest outside this throne room and the Lincoln is in the sea west of Avlee.  Return here with the Overthruster as soon as possible.	Fail	Resurectra
1254	"Our finest hour is upon us.  While you have been taking care of all those important tasks, my compatriots and I have been struggling with our former friends for the parts we need to rebuild the Heavenly Forge of legend.  By former friends, I mean the four chief advisors to King Magnus of the Wizards.  They have a plan to build a gate to the Ancients.  They could have stood with us, but threw it all away on some vague hope of a 'better future'.  But you!  You have stood with us all this time.Only one task remains--we need the Oscillation Overthruster from our old vehicle, the Lincoln.  We have been unable to find one on your world.  The ship is in the sea west of Avlee and secured against entry, even from ourselves.  Now you must wear our environment suits, enter the ship, and return with the Overthruster.  Our old environments suits have been prepared for you in the chest outside this throne room.  For the suit to function properly you must not be wearing any equipment.We will stand watch over the Forge, and defend it against our enemies.  Bring us the Overthruster, my friends, and together, we shall rule the world!"	Fail	Resurectra
1255	"YOU'VE DONE IT!!!  You have the Overthruster!  Quickly, come with me to the laboratory!  The forge is ready…"	Success	Kastore
1256	"Don't forget you'll need the environmental suits to get to the Lincoln.  These suits are in the chest outside the throne room, and the Lincoln is in the sea west of Avlee.  What else do you need to know?"	Fail	Kastore
1257	This month's bounty is on a %s.  Kill it and return before the end of the month to collect the %lu gold reward.		Monster hunt 1
1258	Congratulations on defeating the %s!  Here is the %lu gold reward.  Come back next month for a new bounty.		Monster hunt 2
1259	Someone has already claimed the bounty this month.  Come back next month for a new bounty.		Monster hunt 3
1260	"You need to have your own deck of cards to play. We will supply the opponent.  Victory conditions vary per inn. Build your tower, destroy your opponent's tower, or collect enough resources before your opponent does. Large yellow numbers in column are the generators. This is how many new units of a particular resource you will receive on your next turn. Small black numbers in column are the resources. This is how many units you have available to spend on your current turn.Cards: Each have their own cost to play, indicated in a small circle in the lower right corner of the card. The cost will be deducted from your resources according to the color of the card.  Left click on a card plays the card. Right click on a card to discard without playing.Red represents your Quarry Generator which produces your Brick resources, blue represents your Magic Generator which produces Gem resources, green represents your Zoo generator which produces Beast resources. "		Monster hunt 3
1261	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 15, Wall of 5.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 30, one of the resources to 100, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 1	
1262	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 20 and a Wall of 5.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 50, one of the resources to 150, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 2	
1263	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 20 and a Wall of 5.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 50, one of the resources to 150, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 3	
1264	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 25 and a Wall of 10.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 75, one of the resources to 200, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 4	
1265	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 25 and a Wall of 10.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 75, one of the resources to 200, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 5	
1266	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 30 and a Wall of 15.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 100, one of the resources to 300, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 6	
1267	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 30 and a Wall of 15.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 100, one of the resources to 300, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 7	
1268	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 20 and a Wall of 10.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 150, one of the resources to 400, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 8	
1269	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 20 and a Wall of 10.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 200, one of the resources to 500, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 9	
1270	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 20 and a Wall of 50.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 100, one of the resources to 300, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 10	
1271	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 10 and a Wall of 20.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 125, one of the resources to 350, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 11	
1272	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 10 and a Wall of 20.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 125, one of the resources to 350, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 12	
1273	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 50 and a Wall of 50.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 100, one of the resources to 300, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 13	
1274	"So you seek to further your skills with the staff? Excellent! The staff can work offensively and defensively, and make you more difficult to hit. My teachings will raise you to Expert level, but first you must have a skill level of 4 with the staff and of course there is my small fee of 2000 gold."	skill 200	
1275	"You wish to continue on the path of mastery of the staff? If you prove an apt pupil and have already achieved an Expert skill level of 7 with the staff, I will gladly instruct you to Master level for 5000 gold.  With the skills I will teach you will have a chance to stun your opponent!"	skill 201	
1276	"To achieve Grand Mastery of the staff, you must deal with me! Before I can instruct you, you must have reached a Master Skill level of 10 with the staff, and pay my price of 8000 gold.  You will learn to fight with the staff and your body, allowing you to utilize the Unarmed skill, if you possess it."	skill 202	
1277	"So the sword is your weapon of choice, and you would like to have the skill to slay more effectively? Then I can help you!  My instruction will teach you to use your blade more quickly than before. If you have 2000 gold and have reached a skill level of 4 with the sword, I will instruct you to Expert level."	skill 203	
1278	"Bah!  Even the strongest plate armor can be sliced like a melon by someone who can wield a sword with Mastery!  With an Expert sword level of 7 and 5000 gold this I can teach you!   With the skills I teach, you can carry another weapon in your left hand, making you twice as deadly."	skill 204	
1279	"Even the cheapest steel can save the life of a warrior who has achieved Grand Mastery of the sword. With Grand Mastery you will be more difficult to hit.  If you have reached a Master skill of 10 with the sword and can pay my fee of 8000, I will teach you all the techniques of a Grand Master Swordsman."	skill 205	
1280	"I have a dagger and I bet can kill you before you draw yours! Speed can kill and the dagger is the fastest weapon! With what I can teach you, you can carry another weapon in your off hand. Two are better than one. The Expert skills of the dagger can be yours if you have a dagger skill level of 4 and can pay my modest fee of 2000 gold."	skill 206	
1281	Ha!  The fastest survive! This you learn as a small goblin child!  As a Master of the dagger I have and will survive! My teachings can greatly increase your chance of causing critical damage! If you have an Expert skill level of 7 and 5000 gold I can lead you to Mastery!	skill 207	
1282	"The quickest dagger, the one that is never seen, is the ultimate weapon.  You can rapidly attack your foe before he has a chance to strike you once.  With Grand Mastery of the dagger, this can be yours.  You must have a Master skill level of 10 and 8000 gold to receive my instruction."	skill 208	
1283	"Speed kills, especially when that speed is driving an axe. With my instruction you can have this Expert ability. You will strike more quickly than before, demolishing your foes! You must first have a skill level of 4 with the axe and pay my price of 2000 gold."	skill 209	
1284	"Mastery of the axe and skilled hands can split an opponents head like a pudding. With my instruction you can have this ability! You blows will cause more damage than before, devastating your opponents! But first you must have an Expert skill level of 7 with the axe and pay my price of 5000 gold."	skill 210	
1285	"As a Grand Master of the axe, your opponents' armor will mean nothing.  The effectiveness of their armor will be cut in half as you slice it from their carcass! I can teach you this skill, but you first must have a Master skill level of 10 with the axe and pay me 8000 gold."	skill 211	
1286	Spear expertise makes you one with your weapon.  With this skill you will cause more damage to your foe.  I can raise you to an Expert level if your skill level is 4 and you have 2000 gold.	skill 212	
1287	The spear is your weapon of choice? Would you like to learn to carry a shield or another weapon in your off hand to improve your combat ability?  This knowledge can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 with the spear and 5000 gold.	skill 213	
1288	"So you seek to further your skills with the spear? Excellent! The spear can work offensively and defensively, and make you more difficult to hit. My teachings will raise you to Grand Master, but first you must have a Master skill level of 10 with the spear and of course there is my small fee of 8000 gold."	skill 214	
1289	"Like to keep your enemy beyond arm's reach do you?  The bow is the best way to slay your enemy before he can harm you.  With my teachings you'll reach Expert status and be able to fire your bow more quickly, thus eliminating your enemy at range.  I will teach you if your skill level with the bow is 4 and you pay the price of 2000 gold."	skill 215	
1290	Think you are fast with the bow?  The speed you have now is nothing compared to what I can teach you.  My Master lessons can teach you to fire 2 arrows where Experts can only fire one.  This requires an Expert skill of 7 with the bow and the fee of 5000 gold.	skill 216	
1291	"Speed with the bow can definitely be an advantage, but that speed combined with the knowledge of how to seriously injure your foe can be the difference between life and death.  I will teach you Grand Mastery of the bow and you will increase the amount of damage that each shot does.  You must be a Master with a skill level of 10 and pay 8000 gold for this instruction."	skill 217	
1292	"The mace is a subtle weapon.  Where blades and dagger slash the flesh, the mace can break bones and destroy organs without all the bloody mess. As an Expert with the mace you will inflict more damage, increasing combat effectiveness.  If you have achieved a skill level of 4 and pay 2000 I will instruct you."	skill 218	
1293	"Who needs subtlety when your opponent is unconscious?  Mastery of the mace will give you the chance to stun or even paralyze your enemy.  For 5000 gold and proof that you have reached an Expert skill level of 7, I will teach you Mastery of the mace."	skill 219	
1294	"A greater chance to subdue your foe means a smaller chance you will be hurt yourself.  Grand Mastery of the mace will increase your chances of stunning or even paralyzing your foes.  If you have a Master skill level of 10 and can pay me 8000 gold, I will instruct you."	skill 220	
1295	"Looking to increase your Skill with the Blaster?  If you have a Skill level of 4 in Blaster, I will teach you and you will become an Expert with the Blaster.  With better aim, comes less opponents left standing!"	skill 221	
1296	Think you know your Blaster?  If you have reached a Skill level of 7 with the Blaster I will teach you how to Master this weapon of destruction.  You miss your target less and less as your Mastery of this weapon improves.	skill 222	
1297	"Your skills improve!  If your Skill with the Blaster is 10, I can teach you Grandmastery of the Blaster.  With this you will hit your target more often than not.  Dealing death and devastation where ever you go!"	skill 223	
1298	"The shield can be your friend.  It keeps those who wish you dead from striking at you.  With the Expert skill in shield that I can teach you, you will eliminate the penalty to your weapon's recovery for carrying a shield.  This skill can be yours for 1000 gold and proof of a skill level of 4 with the shield."	skill 224	
1299	"Mastery of the shield makes its defensive bonus doubly effective, making you that much harder to hit!  I will teach you Mastery of the shield if you have reached an Expert skill level of 7 and pay me 3000 gold."	skill 225	
1300	"Under my Grand Master tutelage, you will learn to make the shield the ultimate defense.  Not only will it protect you in melee but will also give you the benefits of the Shield spell.  This skill can be yours if you have reached a Master skill level of 10 with the shield and pay me 7000 gold."	skill 226	
1301	"Leather armor is the lightest protection around.  It keeps those who wish you dead from harming you.  With the Expert skill in leather armor, you will eliminate the penalty to your weapon's recovery caused by wearing armor.  This skill can be yours for 1000 gold and proof of a skill level of 4 in leather."	skill 227	
1302	"Mastery of leather armor makes its defensive bonus doubly effective, making you that much harder to hit!  I will teach you Mastery of leather armor if you have reached an Expert skill level of 7 and pay me 3000 gold."	skill 228	
1303	"Under my Grand Master tutelage, you will learn to make leather armor your ultimate defense.  Not only will it protect you in melee but will also protect you from the elemental spells of Earth, Air, Fire and Water.  This skill can be yours if you have reached a Master skill level of 10 with leather armor and pay me 7000 gold."	skill 229	
1304	"Chain armor is more durable than leather and offers more protection.  It keeps those who wish you dead from harming you.  With the Expert skill in chain armor, you will cut the penalty to your weapon's recovery caused by wearing armor in half.  This skill can be yours for 1000 gold and proof of a skill level of 4 in chain."	skill 230	
1305	Mastery of chain armor eliminates the penalty to your weapon's recovery caused by wearing armor.  I will teach you Mastery of chain armor if you have reached an Expert skill level of 7 and pay me 3000 gold.	skill 231	
1306	"Under my Grand Master tutelage, you will learn to make chain armor your ultimate defense.  Under my instruction you will learn to use chain to take less damage from the physical blows that hit you.  This skill can be yours if you have reached a Master skill level of 10 with chain armor and pay me 7000 gold."	skill 232	
1307	"Plate armor is the ultimate protection; compared to it, leather and chain are nothing.  With the Expert skill in plate armor, you will cut the penalty to your weapon's recovery caused by wearing armor in half.  This skill can be yours for 1000 gold and proof of a skill level of 4 in plate."	skill 233	
1308	Mastery of plate armor cuts the amount of damage from physical attacks in half.  I will teach you Mastery of plate armor if you have reached an Expert skill level of 7 and pay me 3000 gold.	skill 234	
1309	Grand Mastery of plate armor eliminates the penalty to your weapon's recovery caused by wearing armor.  I will teach you Grand Mastery of plate armor if you have reached a Master skill level of 10 and pay me 7000 gold.	skill 235	
1310	With Expert Fire Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for Fire.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Fire Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Fire Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 236	
1311	With Master Fire Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Fire Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Fire Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	skill 237	
1312	With Grand Master Fire Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Fire Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Fire Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	skill 238	
1313	With Expert Air Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Air Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Air Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 239	
1314	With Master Air Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Air Magic can be yours if you have a Expert skill level of 7 in Air Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	skill 240	
1315	With Grand Master Air Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Air Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Air Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	skill 241	
1316	With Expert Water Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Water Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Water Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 242	
1317	With Master Water Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Water Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Water Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	skill 243	
1318	With Grand Master Water Magic you can learn the Grand Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Water Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Water Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	skill 244	
1319	With Expert Earth Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Earth Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Earth Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 245	
1320	With Master Earth Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Earth Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Earth Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	skill 246	
1321	"With Grand Master Earth Magic you can learn the Grand Master spell for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Earth Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Earth Magic, and can pay the price of 8000 gold."	skill 247	
1322	With Expert Spirit Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Spirit Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Spirit Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 248	
1323	With Master Spirit Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Spirit Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Spirit Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	skill 249	
1324	With Grand Master Spirit Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Spirit Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Spirit Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	skill 250	
1325	With Expert Mind Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Mind Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in mind Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 251	
1326	With Master Mind Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Mind Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Mind Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	skill 252	
1327	With Grand Master Mind Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Mind Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Mind Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	skill 253	
1328	With Expert Body Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Body Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Body Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 254	
1329	With Master Body Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Body Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Body Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	skill 255	
1330	With Grand Master Body Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Body Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Body Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	skill 256	
1331	With Expert Light Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Light Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Light Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 257	
1332	"With Master Light Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Light Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Light Magic, have completed the Walls of Mist quest and can pay the price of 5000 gold."	skill 258	
1333	"With Grand Master Light Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Light Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Light Magic, have completed either the Archmage or Priest of Light promotion quests and can pay the price of 8000 gold."	skill 259	
1334	With Expert Dark Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Dark Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Dark Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 260	
1335	"With Master Dark Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Dark Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Dark Magic, have completed the Breeding Zone quest and can pay the price of 5000 gold."	skill 261	
1336	"With Grand Master Dark Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Dark Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Dark Magic, have completed either the Lich or Priest of Dark promotion quests and can pay the price of 8000 gold."	skill 262	
1337	"Ever sold an item that turned out to be better than your existing equipment?  Nothing worse than having a merchant snicker at you for not knowing what you're selling. With Expert Identify Item you can attempt to identify weapons and armor to prevent this embarrassment. If your skill level is 4 and you pay 500 gold, I will teach you."	skill 263	
1338	"Wands, scrolls, rings and potions can be important items, and not knowing what they are is just foolishness.  With Mastery of the Identify Items skill you can attempt to identify weapons, armor, and other miscellaneous items.  For a small fee of 2500 gold and demonstration of an Expert Skill level of 7, I can teach you Mastery of the Identify Items Skill."	skill 264	
1339	"Found and ancient item or relic and don’t know what it does or what its for.  Ignorance in the case is not bliss, in fact it could very well kill. With Grand Mastery of the Identify Item Skill you can attempt to identify anything you have found including artifacts and relics.  A Master Skill level of 10 and 6000 gold is all that is required to learn this Skill."	skill 265	
1340	Shop owners are a greedy lot.  Want to get better prices for what you buy and sell?  Then you better have the Merchant Skill and fast. I can teach you the Expertise of the Merchant Skill if you have a skill level of 4 and pay 2000 gold.  Expertise doubles your bonus towards prices.	skill 266	
1341	"Shop owners are a greedy lot.  Want to get better prices for what you buy and sell?  Then you better have the Merchant Skill and learn the ins and outs of trading. I can teach you Mastery of the Merchant Skill if you have an Expert Skill level of 7, a Personality of 50 and pay 5000 gold.  Mastery triples your bonus towards prices."	skill 267	
1342	Shop owners are a greedy lot.  Want to get better prices for what you buy and sell?  Then you better have the Merchant Skill and learn the ins and outs of trading. I can teach you Grand Mastery of the Merchant Skill if you have a Master Skill level of 10 and pay 8000 gold.  Grand Mastery allows you to pay and receive the actual price for goods.	skill 268	
1343	"Your equipment is only as good as the person who repairs it.  If you can't fix it, you could find yourself stuck in the wilderness with no armor or weapons.  This could be extraordinarily bad. Expertise with the Repair Item skill allows you not only the chance of repairing weapons, but armor as well.  This skill can be yours if you have a Skill level of 4 and pay 500 gold."	skill 269	
1344	"Your equipment is only as good as the person who repairs it.  If you can't fix it, you could find yourself stuck in the wilderness with no armor or weapons.  This could be extraordinarily bad. Mastery of the Repair Item skill allows you not only the chance of repairing weapons and armor any broken miscellaneous item as well.  This skill can be yours if you have an Expert Skill level of 7 and pay 2500 gold."	skill 270	
1345	"Your equipment is only as good as the person who repairs it.  If you can't fix it, you could find yourself stuck in the wilderness with no armor or weapons.  This could be extraordinarily bad. A Grand Master of the Repair Items Skill can fix ANYTHING that is broken.  This skill can be yours if you have a Master Skill level of 10 and pay 6000 gold."	skill 271	
1346	"So you think you are adventurers, do you?  There's not enough meat on you to protect you from the slap of a baby goblin!  Body Building is the only way to go.  You will be stronger and tougher than before!  An Expert of Body Building is tougher than the normal hero.  I can teach you this if your skill level is 4, pay 500 gold and are ready to sweat!"	skill 272	
1347	"So you think you are adventurers, do you?  There's not enough meat on you to protect you from the slap of a baby troll!  Body Building is the only way to go.  You will be stronger and tougher than before!  A Master of Body Building is much tougher than the average hero.  I can teach you this if your Expert Skill level is 7, pay 2500 gold and have and Endurance of 50! No pain no gain!"	skill 273	
1348	"So you think you are adventurers, do you?  There's not enough meat on you to protect you from the slap of a baby dragon!  Body Building is the only way to go.  You will be stronger and tougher than before!  A Grand Master of Body Building is the toughest hero you can find.  I can teach you this if your Master Skill level is 9, pay 6000 gold and have and Endurance of 50! No pain no gain!"	skill 274	
1349	Not enough spell points for casting those Expert spells?  Meditation is what you need.  With an Expert Skill in Meditation you get a double bonus to your available spell points.  This could mean one more powerful spell when you most need it!  Expertise can be yours if your skill level is 4 and pay me 500 gold.	skill 275	
1350	Not enough spell points for casting those Master spells?  Meditation is what you need.  With a Master Skill in Meditation you get a triple bonus to your available spell points.  This could mean one more powerful spell when you most need it!  Mastery can be yours if your Expert Skill level is 7 and pay me 2500 gold.	skill 276	
1351	Not enough spell points for casting those Grand Master spells?  Meditation is what you need.  With a Grand Master Skill in Meditation you get a quadruple bonus to your available spell points.  This could mean one or more powerful spells when you most need them!  Grand Mastery can be yours if your Master Skill level is 10 and pay me 6000 gold.	skill 277	
1352	"Things are sometime hidden in the dungeons and castles of this land.   You may have missed something without even knowing it was there.  Perception increases your chance of finding these hidden things. Expertise in the Perception skill doubles your chances of finding these hidden things.  For 500 gold and a skill level of 4 in Perception, I will teach you."	skill 278	
1353	"Things are sometime hidden in the dungeons and castles of this land.   You may have missed something without even knowing it was there.  Perception increases your chance of finding these hidden things. Mastery of the Perception skill triples your chances of finding these hidden things.  For 2500 gold and an Expert skill level of 7 in Perception, I will teach you."	skill 279	
1354	"Things are sometime hidden in the dungeons and castles of this land.  You may have missed something without even knowing it was there.  Perception increases your chance of finding these hidden things. Grand Mastery of the Perception skill quintuples your chances of finding these hidden things. For 6000 gold and a Master Skill level of 10 in Perception, I will teach you."	skill 280	
1355	"My brother, Elron, was an avid Arcomage player.  Have you played Arcomage yet?  Horribly addicting game, if I do say so.  In any rate, you can only play if you have a deck, and decks are hard to come by… so I guess you probably haven't.  In any case, Elron wanted to go over some strategies to help him win more games.  Unfortunately, he didn't want to be in town because he didn't want anyone else to spy on him learn his tricks so he went to the White Cliff Caves southeast a bit from town.Elron hasn't been back in almost a week.  I'm certain something horrible has happened to him, but if he's alive I'd like to know that too.  Would you do me the service of locating him?  I don't have a lot of money to pay you back with, but I'd be greatly in your debt."	skill 280	
1356	"Still no sign of him?  I understand.  If you do happen to find out what happened to him, please let me know."	Fail	Used to be Master Diplomacy
1357	"Dead?  Oh dear!  Those are certainly his cards, though.  I don't want the cards; you can have them-- that game has cost me enough now.  Oh, poor Elron!  I have a little money you can keep for your help, and thank you for finding out what happened to Elron."	Success	Used to be GM Diplomacy
1358	"The School of Sorcery here in the Bracada Desert collects a number of odd magical paraphernalia.  A few years ago an item of particular interest was stolen from the School by raiders from Deyja.  This item, the Seasons' Stole, was worn by Priests of the Sun during religious ceremonies at the turn of the seasons.  As a representative of the School of Sorcery, I'm authorized to reward you for its return.  Our last information placed the stolen Stole in the Hall of the Pit; I would suggest checking there first."	First Time scarf quest	Used to be Expert Thievery
1359	Don't forget there is a reward for the Seasons' Stole if you are able to find it and return it to me.	Fail	Used to be Master Thievery
1360	Excellent!  This most certainly is the Seasons' Stole.  Here is your reward; you've done both the School of Sorcery and myself a great service.	Success	Used to be GM Thievery
1361	"Tired of chests blowing up in your face?  Sick of poison gas clouds, fireballs, and lightning bolts sending party members to the Great Beyond?  Expert Lock Picking doubles your chance of disarming these traps before they go off.  I will teach you Expert Lock Picking if you have a Skill level of 4 and can pay 500 gold."	skill 287	
1362	"Tired of chests blowing up in your face?  Sick of poison gas clouds, fireballs, and lightning bolts sending party members to the Great Beyond?  Master Lock Picking triples your chance of disarming these traps before they go off.  I will teach you Master Lock Picking if you have an Expert Skill level of 7 and can pay 2500 gold."	skill 288	
1363	"Tired of chests blowing up in your face?  Sick of poison gas clouds, fireballs, and lightning bolts sending party members to the Great Beyond?  Grand Master Lock Picking eliminates these pesky traps entirely before they go off.  I will teach you Grand Master Lock Picking if you have a Master Skill level of 10 and can pay 6000 gold."	skill 289	
1364	"The best defense to an attack is not to be there when the attack is made.  Of course you must be quick and agile to do this, and wear no armor. While your Dodging skill makes you that more difficult to hit, this bonus is doubled when you have learned my Expert teachings.  I will instruct you if you have a Skill level of 4 in Dodging and pay 2000 gold."	skill 290	
1365	"The best defense to an attack is not to be there when the attack is made.  Of course you must be quick and agile to do this, and wear no armor. While your Dodging skill makes you that more difficult to hit, this bonus is tripled when you have learned Mastery of dodging.  I will instruct you if you have an Expert Skill level of 7 in Dodging and pay 5000 gold"	skill 291	
1366	"The best defense to an attack is not to be there when the attack is made.  Of course you must be quick and agile to do this, and wear no armor. Or so you thought, for Grand Mastery gives you all of the benefits of Dodging while wearing leather armor. Your Dodging skill makes you that much more difficult to hit and this bonus is still tripled when you have achieved Grand Mastery of Dodging.  I will instruct you if you have a Master Skill level of 10 in Dodging, pay 8000 gold and skill level of 10 in Unarmed combat."	skill 292	
1367	Hand to hand combat is the quickest way to fight.  No weapons to slow you down. With my Expert teachings you will learn to do more damage with every hit you land upon your enemy. You must have a skill level of 4 in Unarmed combat and pay my price of 2000 gold.	skill 293	
1368	You wish to continue upon the path of Mastery of Unarmed combat?  With Mastery you will double your bonus to hit and damage with every attack.  First you must have an Expert skill level of 7 with Unarmed combat and pay 5000 gold.  Only then will I teach you.	skill 294	
1369	"Attaining Grand Master level of Unarmed combat gives you the chance to avoid attacks entirely, leaving you unhampered to slay your foe.  You must demonstrate a Master skill level of 10 in Unarmed combat, a skill level of 10 in Dodging and pay 8000 gold to receive my instruction."	skill 295	
1370	Knowing what you are up against in combat can mean the difference between life and death.  Being able to identify the monsters and opponents you are fighting can make this difference. I can teach you Expert Identify Monster if you already have a skill level of 4 and and pay 500 gold.	skill 296	
1371	"He who runs away today lives to run away another day.  This doesn't necessarily mean he is a coward, however.  He may just be very smart.  He may know how his opponent attacks and what spells he may use, if any.  I can teach you Master Identify Monster if you have achieved an Expert Skill level of 7 and can pay 2500 gold."	skill 297	
1372	"If you can probe your enemies defenses and know his weaknesses, you will always prevail.  With Grand Mastery of Identify Monster, you will know how your enemy attacks and what his defenses are.  This knowledge will allow you to attack his weakest points. I can raise you to Grand Master of this skill if you have a Master skill level of 10 and pay 6000 gold."	skill 298	
1373	Knowledge of a single weapon is great.  Having knowledge of all weapons is even better.  Armsmaster skill allows you to decrease the recovery time of any melee weapon you are already skilled with and gives the chance for greater inflicted damage.  I can make you an Expert Armsmaster if you have a skill level of 4 and pay 2000 gold.	skill 299	
1374	Knowledge of a single melee weapon is great.  Having knowledge of all melee weapons is even better.  Armsmaster skill allows you to decrease the recovery time of any melee weapon you are already skilled with and gives the chance for greater inflicted damage.  I can make you a Master Armsmaster if you have an Expert skill level of 7 and pay 5000 gold.	skill 300	
1375	Knowledge of a single melee weapon is great.  Having knowledge of all melee weapons is even better.  Armsmaster skill decreases the recovery time of any melee weapon you are already skilled with and gives the chance for greater inflicted damage.  I can make you a Grand Master Armsmaster if you have a Master skill level of 10 and pay 8000 gold.	skill 301	
1376	Don’t want to pay for an item from a store?  The five finger discount gives you a chance to to take an item without paying for it.  I can teach you Expert Stealing for 500 gold and if your skill level is already 4.  This will double you chance of success!	skill 302	
1377	"Just a little short on gold?  Or do you think that free is always better than having to pay?  If you already have an Expert Skill level of 7 in Stealing and pay me 2500 gold, I can teach you ways of Master Stealing, tripling you chances of success while stealing!"	skill 303	
1378	"Want to keep all that hard earned gold, do you?  Don’t want to have to pay to replace that broken item you can't repair? As a Grand Master of Stealing I can teach you ways to quintuple your chances of success when stealing.  You must already have a Master skill level of 10 and pay me 6000 gold!"	skill 304	
1379	Tired of the simple potions mixtures?  Want to make something new and potent?  Want to create compound potions?  This knowledge of Expert Alchemy can be yours if you demonstrate a skill level of 4 and pay 500 gold.	skill 305	
1380	Want to know how to use potions and compound potions to make white potions?  I can raise you to Master knowledge of Alchemy if you have an Expert skill level of 7 and pay 2500 gold.	skill 306	
1381	"The black potion is the Alchemist's ultimate creation!  They can effect so many different things and are even wonderful to taste!  Grand Mastery of Alchemy can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Alchemy, possess one of each of the best reagents and pay 6000 gold."	skill 307	
1382	"Learning allows you to gain more experience from your travels and encounters. Expert Learning doubles the bonus to gained experience, leading you down the path of greater wisdom.  I will instruct you in Expert Learning if your Skill level is 4 and you pay me 2000 gold."	skill 308	
1383	"Learning allows you to gain more experience from your travels and encounters. Master Learning triples the bonus to gained experience, leading you down the path of greater wisdom.  I will instruct you in Master Learning if you have an Expert Skill level of 7, pay me 5000 gold and have and Intellect of 50."	skill 309	
1384	"Learning allows you to gain more experience from your travels and encounters. Grand Master Learning quintuples the bonus to gained experience, leading you down the path of greater wisdom.  I will instruct you in Grand Master Learning if you have a Master Skill level of 10, pay me 8000 gold and have and Intellect of 50."	skill 310	
1385	"Thomas Grey runs the School of Sorcery.  If you're looking for promotion to Wizard or Honorary Wizard, he's your man.  His room is right through the door behind me."		
1386	"Would you like a membership to the School of Sorcery Scroll Shop?  A membership allows you free access to the scrolls available in our library.  It costs 5000 gold for a six month membership, but the shop stocks once per week."	Do you want a membership?	
1387	"Here's the membership, remember it only lasts for six months.  Check the shelves in the front rooms here to see what is available."	Here's the membership	
1388	You don't have enough gold-- it's no use trying to fool a Wizard.	Not enough gold	
1389	"You want to bury the bones of Zokarr IV in our old barrows?  No dwarf here will brave the dangers, but Zokarr deserves to be laid to rest in the right place.  Look for the secret barrow, the one with only one entrance.  In there is a coffin waiting for Zokarr's bones."	Need the bones	Dwarf King
1390	"We have no one to turn to but you, the new Lords of Harmondale. The Lantern of Light is a treasured holy relic, used by the temples of Erathia.  Its value is more symbolic than of power-- without it the temples servants lose faith.  This Lantern disappeared while being brought to this temple from the temple in Stone City.  We believe it was lost somewhere in the maze-like Barrows.  Please find it and return it to us."	Get Lantern	
1391	Have you found the Lantern of Light?  We're certain it was lost in the maze of Barrows in the Barrow Downs.	Don’t have Lantern	
1392	"Thank you, Lords of Harmondale.  The Lantern's return will bolster our faith and allows us to continue our services.  Please take this small reward as a token of our gratitude."	Returned Lantern	
1393	"My, brother, Haldar passed away last month.  The family was sending his remains to me to be put to final rest.  Something happened to those delivering these remains to me; they disappeared in Nighon and not been heard from since. I fear my brothers soul will never rest unless they are found!  Please return Haldar to me if you find him? I will reward you well for this!"	Get Haldar's Remains	
1394	Did you find Haldar's Remains?  His soul must be in sheer agony!  Please find the jar with his remains!	Don’t have Haldar's Remains	
1395	"Thank you for returning my ""brother's"" remains!  He was a promising Warlock and his life was ended to soon.  Now that I have his remains, I will attempt to bring him back as a Lich, and together we will seek greater power and glory!"	Returned Haldar's Remains	
1396	"My lords, I was beset by foul bandits when I returned from Avlee and they took everything I had brought with me from the Elves.  They even took my signet ring!  Without it I cannot continue my business because I cannot seal contracts between myself and other merchants.  I've heard the bandits base themselves out of a camp in Erathia, but I'm no warrior-- I'd not last a minute against them.  Please go to Erathia and see this justice done!"	Get Davrik's Ring	
1397	"You don't have my ring yet?  The bandits are south of Castle Gryphonheart in Erathia.  Please help me, I don't have anyone else to turn to."	Don’t have Davrik's Ring	
1398	"My ring!  Thank you lords.  I can now continue my business and recover my losses, and you have made the trading routes safer for all the merchants!"	Returned Davrik's Ring	
1399	"So you are the Lords of Harmondale, eh?  You don’t look like much; we shall see how history judges you!  I myself am a historian and collector of rare historical items.  Lord Markham also collects such items of interest and there is one item in particular that would complete my collection, Parson's Quill-- the Quill used to sign the Treaty of Pierpont ending the first Timber War.  I know you have dealt with Lord Markham before, it's how you became Lords of this land after all, and if you would take this letter to Lord Markham in Tatalia, I'm sure he would respond favorably.  I would be even more in your debt if Lord Markham sends this item back with you!  I would be sure to favorably record your heroic acts and deeds!"	Sealed Letter to Lord Markum	
1400	"Did Lord Markham refuse to give you the Quill, or have you not even visited him yet?  His Manor is in Tatalia, please don't forget to help me."	Don’t have Peacock Feather	
1401	The actual Peacock feather that was used to sign the Treaty of Pierpont.  My collection is complete!  I will be sure to record your activities and deeds correctly and justly so that all will know you as the true Lords of Harmondale!	Returned with Peacock Feather	
1402	"A letter from Norbert Thrush the Historian? Let me see it.  [Lord Markham scans the letter briefly] Hmmmmm…he wants the Peacock feather that was used to sign the Treaty of Pierpont, does he.  Well, seeing as though he has a supposed original of the Treaty, I guess the feather should go to him.  He has promised me anything else in his collection.  Take this to him and tell him that I will come collect from him shortly!"	Letter from Norbert Thrush	
1403	"I hear you folk are the new Lords of Harmondale, eh?  Perhaps you could do me a large favor, and help yourselves in the process.  To the north, in Avlee, lies the Hall under the Hill, the domain of the Faerie King.  He owes me a debt from a previous service of mine, and I would like to collect it.  Unfortunately, the faeries in the Hall and the tricks they play frighten me to death.  If you would deliver this letter to the Faerie King, and return what he gives you to me, I'd be very grateful.  You would also have the chance to meet the Faerie King for yourselves."	First Time Pipes Quest	Johann Kerrid
1404	"Excellent!  The Pipes!  You don't know what this means to me.  Here, take this as a reward and thank you again for your help in this!"	Success	Johann Kerrid
1405	"Don't forget to give the letter to the Faerie King.  Without it, he probably won't even want to talk to you."	Fail	Johann Kerrid
1406	"We request your services for only one small task.  In Castle Lambent rests a valuable tapestry taken from an attack on Watchtower 3 years ago.  I would like you to get the tapestry for me, as you must have *some* access to the Castle-- my normal associates can't even come near the place.  I hear a large band of goblins and renegade swordsmen are about... it would be a shame if they happened to find a way to Harmondale.  You have one month to get the tapestry.  Don't be late."	First Time Good	Niles Stantley
1407	"We request your services for one task.  A rare and valuable tapestry rests in Castle Gloaming, an antique from near the Silence stolen from the wizards some time ago.  I would like you to get the tapestry for me, as my normal associates don't have access to Castle Gloaming.  In return, I'll make sure that the large band of renegade swordsmen and goblins near Harmondale don't accidentally stumble upon your quiet, little village.  You have one month; don't be late."	First Time Evil	Niles Stantley
1408	"Excellent!  I see that you can be trusted to perform well when called upon.  I'll keep that in mind the next time I need a job done.  Your reward is nothing more than status quo-- things could be much worse than they already are.  Go now, I have no more time for you."	Success	Niles Stantley
1409	"I see.  Well, it would appear that the band of renegades has indeed discovered your little town, and has begun looting.  You may find your bank account a little, well, pinched.  Consider this a lesson in punctuality.  Go now and have a pleasant, pleasant day."	Fail	Niles Stantley
1410	"A few years back, while mining underneath Stone City, we came upon quite a shock.  It seems that the Warlocks from Nighon had burrowed under the sea to make a sneak attack upon the shores of Erathia.  Their careless tunneling has sunken the earth around here until now the areas around the old dwarven barrows and, of course, Stone City, rest far above the terrain.  We discovered a force of troglodytes in our mining areas, with a tunnel leading back to Nighon.  If you could help us by ridding the tunnels of the troglodytes, we could get back to mining.  Can you help us?"	Kill Troggies First Time	Spark Burnkindle
1411	There are still troglodytes roaming the lower mine levels.  Please remove them!	Fail	Spark Burnkindle
1412	They're gone?  Routed back into the connecting tunnels to Nighon!  Excellent!  We can get back to mining immediately!  Thank you so much for your help; take this as a reward for your services.	Success	Spark Burnkindle
1413	"I have recently gained information that the forces of Queen Catherine, in Erathia, have begun to build a force to attack Deyja.  Because of the difficult terrain, they have begun to breed and train griffins to assist in their attack.  These griffins are being raised in both Erathia and the Bracada Desert.  I need you to kill off all the griffins in those two areas so that the Erathians will be forced to drastically delay their plans of attack."	Kill Griffins First Time	Seth Drakkson
1414	You haven't killed off all the griffins in either Erathia or the Bracada Desert.  It is imperative that you finish this task to prevent their invasion.	"Fail, killed no griffins"	Seth Drakkson
1415	"You've killed the griffins near Spyre Town, but you haven't dealt with the griffins in Erathia yet.  Finish them both off and return to me."	"Fail, haven't killed Erathian griffins"	Seth Drakkson
1416	"You've killed the griffins near Steadwick, but you haven't dealt with the griffins in the Bracada Desert yet.  Finish them both off and return to me."	"Fail, haven't killed Bracada griffins"	Seth Drakkson
1417	"Excellent!  You've done a splendid job.  Here, take this as your reward and know you've earned the respect of Deyja for your bold success."	Success	Seth Drakkson
1418	"The Baby Dragon grants all Warlocks in the party a bonus of 3 to all their spell skills and recovers spell points for them over time.  The Dragon, however, needs food to grow up big and strong and therefore resting requires an additional food."	R-click text	Baby Dragon
1419	"The Master instructor of the Staff, Elsie Pederton, can be found in the Bracada Desert, on a ridge in the southwest region."	Master Staff hint	James Teacher Hints
1420	"The ultimate teacher in the ways of the Staff, Jillian Mithrit, can be found in the elven territory of Avlee.  Her home is in the city in the northeast."	Grandmaster Staff hint	James Teacher Hints
1421	"The Master instructor of the Sword, Tugor Slicer, maintains his residence in a small village in the western region of the Deyja."	Master Sword hint	James Teacher Hints
1422	"The Grandmaster of the Sword, Chadric Townsaver, can be found in a small village in Welnin, just south of the city of Harmondale."	Grandmaster Sword hint	James Teacher Hints
1423	"The Master tutor of the Dagger, Aznog Slasher, can be found in the northern region of Nighon."	Master Dagger hint	James Teacher Hints
1424	"The Grandmaster of the Dagger, Token Fist, can be found in city of Tidewater in Tatalia.  Rumor has it that the Master Thief in the depths of the Erathian Sewers beneath the capitol city of Steadwick can also instruct at this level."	Grandmaster Dagger hint	James Teacher Hints
1425	"The Master Instructor of all that is the Axe, Dalin Keenedge, can be found in the northeast corner of Stone City."	Master Axe hint	James Teacher Hints
1426	"The ultimate teacher of the uses of the Axe, Karn Stonecleaver, can be found in the snowy heights of the northeast region of Tatalia."	Grandmaster Axe hint	James Teacher Hints
1427	"The Master teacher, Claderin Silverpoint, can be found in the northeast section of the city of Pierpont in the elven region of the Tularean Forest. There he will further you knowledge of the Spear."	Master Spear hint	James Teacher Hints
1428	"The Grandmaster of the Spear, Selene Falconeye, makes her home in the northeast corner of Stone City."	Grandmaster Spear hint	James Teacher Hints
1429	"The Master tutor of the Bow, Lanshee Ravensight, lives in the northern regions of Nighon."	Master Bow hint	James Teacher Hints
1430	"The Grandmaster of the Bow, Cardric the Steady, can be found just to the southeast of the castle in the city of Harmondale."	Grandmaster Bow hint	James Teacher Hints
1431	"The Master instructor of the Mace, Brother Rothham, can be found in the southern region of the swamps of Tatalia."	Master Mace hint	James Teacher Hints
1432	"The Grandmaster of the Mace, Patwin Felburn, teaches from his home in the goblin village found in the eastern area of the Deyja. "	Grandmaster Mace hint	James Teacher Hints
1433	"My Master, Isram Gallowswell, can be found in the snowy heights of the northeast area of Tatalia. You will gain further instruction in the Shield there."	Master Shield hint	James Teacher Hints
1434	"The Grandmaster of the Shield, Fedwin Smithson, can be found on the eastern island of the Evenmorn Islands."	Grandmaster shield hint	James Teacher Hints
1435	"The Master tutor of Leather Armor, Rabisa Neldon, lives in the northern regions of Nighon."	Master Leather hint	James Teacher Hints
1436	"The Grandmaster of Leather Armor, Miyon the Quick, can be found in the eastern section of the city of Pierpont in the elven region of the Tularean Forest."	Grandmaster Leather hint	James Teacher Hints
1437	"The Master instructor of uses of Chain Armor, Medwari Dragontracker, can be found in the elven territory of Avlee.  His home is in the city in the northeast."	Master Chain hint	James Teacher Hints
1438	"The Grandmaster instructor of Chain Armor, Halian Nevermore, maintains his residence in a large city in the northwest region of Deyja."	Grandmaster Chain hint	James Teacher Hints
1439	"My Master, Dekian Forgewright, makes his home in Erathia in the capitol city of Steadwick. He can provide further instruction in the uses of Plate Armor."	Master Plate hint	James Teacher Hints
1440	"The Grandmaster of Plate Armor, Brand the Maker, can be found in the Bracada desert, on a ridge in the central region."	Grandmaster Plate hint	James Teacher Hints
1441	"The Master tutor of Fire Magic, Ashen Temper, can be found in the city of Harmondale near the stables."	Master Fire Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1442	"The Grandmaster of Fire Magic, Blayze, makes his home in Erathia in the capitol city of Steadwick."	Grandmaster Fire Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1443	"The Master tutor of Air Magic, Rislyn Greenstorm, lives in the elven territory of Avlee.  His home is in the city in the northeast."	Master Air Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1444	"The Grandmaster of Air Magic, Gayle, can be found in a tower in the Bracada desert, on a ridge in the northern region."	Grandmaster Air Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1445	"The Master tutor of the uses of Water Magic, Tobren Rainshield, lives in the southwest region of Nighon."	Master Water Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1446	"The Grandmaster of Water Magic, Torrent, lives on a ridge, south of Harmondale, overlooking the city."	Grandmaster Water Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1447	"The Master tutor of Earth Magic, Lara Stonewright, makes her home in the elven territory of the Tularean Forest.  Her residence is in the city of Pierpont."	Master Earth Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1448	"The Grandmaster instructor of Earth Magic, Avalanche, maintains his residence in the western region of the Deyja."	Grandmaster Earth Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1449	"The Master who taught me, Heather Dreamwright, makes her home in Erathia, somewhere in the capitol city of Steadwick.  Further knowledge of Spirit Magic can be gained there."	Master Spirit Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1450	"The ultimate teacher in the ways of Spirit Magic, Benjamin the Balanced, can be found in the elven territory of the Tularean Forest.  His home is in the city of Pierpont."	Grandmaster Spirit Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1451	"The Master teacher in the ways of Mind Magic, Myles Featherwind, can be found in the elven territory of Avlee.  His home is in the city to the northeast."	Master Mind Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1452	"The Grandmaster of Mind Magic, Xavier Bremen, can be found in the snowy heights of the northeast area of Tatalia. "	Grandmaster Mind Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1453	"The Master teacher in the ways of Body Magic, Brother Bombah, can be found in the swampy regions of Tatalia.  His home is somewhere in the southern region."	Master Body Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1454	"The Master of the Identify Item skill, Samuel Benson, can be found on a ridge in the central region of the Bracada desert."	Master Identify Item hint	James Teacher Hints
1455	"The Grandmaster of the Identify Item skill, Payge Blueswan, can be found in the elven territory of Avlee.  His home is just northwest of the elven city of Spaward."	Grandmaster Identify Item hint	James Teacher Hints
1456	"The Master of the Merchant skill, Berthold Caverhill, can be found on the eastern most island of the Evenmorn Islands."	Master Merchant	James Teacher Hints
1457	"The Grandmaster of the Merchant skill, Brigham the Frugal, can be found in a tower in the Bracada desert, on a ridge in the northern region."	Grandmaster Merchant hint	James Teacher Hints
1458	"The Master teacher of the Repair Item Skill, Thomas Moore, can be found in the swampy delta of the southern region of Tatalia."	Master Repair Item hint	James Teacher Hints
1459	"The Grandmaster of the Repair Item Skill, Gareth the Fixer, teaches from his home in the capitol city of Steadwick in Erathia."	Grandmaster Repair Item hint	James Teacher Hints
1460	"The Master of the of the art of Body Building, Wanda Foestryke, can be found in the goblin village in eastern DeyJa Moor."	Master Body Building hint	James Teacher Hints
1461	"The Grandmaster of the Body Building skill, Evander Thomas, makes his home in the eastern regions of Nighon."	Grandmaster Body Building hint	James Teacher Hints
1462	"The Master of Meditation, Tessa Greensward, can be found on a ridge in the southeast region of the Bracada desert."	Master Meditation hint	James Teacher Hints
1463	"The Grandmaster of Meditation, Kaine, can be found in the elven territory of Avlee.  His home is on an island somewhere in the central bay."	Grandmaster Meditation hint	James Teacher Hints
1464	"The Master of the Perception Skill, Garret Dotes, can be found in the elven area of the Tularean Forest.  His home is in the Elven city of Pierpont."	Master Perception hint	James Teacher Hints
1465	"The Grandmaster of the Skill of Perception, Petra Cleareye, can be found in the city in the northwest region of the Deyja."	Grandmaster Perception hint	James Teacher Hints
1466	"The Master of Disarm Trap Skill, Lenord Skinner, lives on a ridge, south of Harmondale, overlooking the city."	Master Disarm Trap hint	James Teacher Hints
1467	"The Grandmaster of the Disarm Trap Skill, Silk Quicktoungue, makes his home in the southern region of Nighon."	Grandmaster Disarm Trap hint	James Teacher Hints
1468	"The Master of the Dodging Skill, Oberic Crane, can be found on the eastern most island of the Evenmorn Islands"	Master Dodging hint	James Teacher Hints
1469	"The Grandmaster of the Dodging Skill, Kenneth Wain, can be found in the capitol city of Steadwick, in Erathia."	Grandmaster Dodging hint	James Teacher Hints
1470	"The Master of Unarmed Combat, Ulbrecht the Brawler, can be found on the eastern most island of the Evenmorn Islands."	Master Unarmed Combat hint	James Teacher Hints
1471	"The Grandmaster of Unarmed Combat, Norris, can be found in the capitol city of Steadwick, in Erathia."	Grandmaster of Unarmed Combat Hint	James Teacher Hints
1472	"The Master instructor of the Identify Monster Skill, Jeni Swiftfoot, lives in the elven territory of Avlee.  Her home is in the city in the northeast."	Master Identify Monster hint	James Teacher Hints
1473	"The Grandmaster of the Identify Monster Skill, Raven the Hunter, can be found in a small village to the south of Harmondale."	Grandmaster Identify Monster Hint	James Teacher Hints
1474	"The Master tutor of the Armsmaster Skill, Paula Brightspear, lives in the elven territory of Avlee.  Her home is in the city in the northeast."	Master Armsmater hint	James Teacher Hints
1475	"The Grandmaster of the Armsmaster Skill, Lasiter the Slayer, makes his home in the eastern region of Eeofol."	Grandmaster Armsmaster hint	James Teacher Hints
1476	"The Master tutor of the Stealing Skill, Leane Shadowrunner, makes her home in the goblin village in the eastern region of the Deyja."	Master Stealing hint	James Teacher Hints
1477	"The Grandmaster teacher of the art of Stealing, Everil Nightwalker, can be found in the swampy delta of the southern region of Tatalia."	Grandmaster Stealing hint	James Teacher Hints
1478	"The Master of Alchemy, Elzbet Winterspoon, can be found in the western region of Nighon."	Master Alchemy hint	James Teacher Hints
1479	"The Grandmaster instructor of Alchemy, Lucid Apple, can be found in the elven territory of Avlee.  His home is on an island somewhere in the central bay."	Grandmaster Alchemy hint	James Teacher Hints
1480	"The Master of Learning, Dorothy Senjac, can be found in the southeast region of Nighon."	Master Learning hint	James Teacher Hints
1481	"The Grandmaster of Learning, William Smithson, instructs from his home on the eastern island of the Evenmorn Islands."	Grandmaster Learning hint	James Teacher Hints
1482	"The Master of Light Magic, Helena Mornigstar, can be found in the cloud city of Celeste!"	Master Light Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1483	"The Grand Master of Light Magic can be found in the wizards castle, Castle Lambent."	Grandmaster Light Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1484	"The Master of Dark, Seth Darkenmore, can be found in The Pit beneath Deyja!"	Master Dark Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1485	"The Grand Master of Dark Magic can be found in the necromancer castle, Castle Gloaming.  At times Archibald has been know to take the journey to Clankers Lab."	Grandmaster Dark Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
1486	Empty Barrel		
1487	+2 Might permanent		
1488	+2 Accuracy permanent		
1489	+2 Personality permanent		
1490	+2 Intellect permanent		
1491	+2 Endurance permanent		
1492	+2 Speed permanent		
1493	+2 Luck permanent		
1494	Empty Cauldron		
1495	+2 Fire Resistance permanent		
1496	+2 Water Resistance permanent		
1497	+2 Air Resistance permanent		
1498	+2 Earth Resistance permanent		
1499	Diseased!		
1500	Nothing Here		
1501	Poisoned!		
1502	Drunk!		
1503	Empty Cask		
1504	Mushroom		
1505	"So YOU'RE the ones that won Lord Markham's contest!  How do you like your winnings so far?  Had enough winning?  If I were you, I'd give him a piece of my mind!  His mansion is in Tatalia, near the wharf."		James Quest Hint
1506	"Watch your wallet while you're here, my friends--Steadwick abounds in thieves.  As a matter of fact, we are the world capital of thieves!  It's common knowledge that Bill Lasker, the Master Thief, lives in the sewers beneath Steadwick."		James Quest Hint
1507	"Back when I was in the army, I was assigned to scout out the watchtowers in Deyja.  <chuckling> It's no good trying to go through the front door, so I usually looked around for another way in.  Those Necromancers are so cowardly, they always have an escape route.  And a way out is also a way in..."		James Quest Hint
1508	"Bill Lasker may be a criminal, but he has worked for the Crown from time to time.  Special missions, official denials of involvement, spying…that sort of stuff.  Quite a few unusual events can be tied to Bill, but none to the Crown.  Seriously, don't you think the Queen's men could find and arrest one man, even if he was hiding in the sewer?"		James Quest Hint
1509	"You want to know about that traitor, Carmine?  Well, she used to work for the diplomatic corps, until she went soft and signed up with the goody two-shoes wizards.  Now she walks the streets of Celeste freely, without a care in the world for the people she left behind.  Something bad will happen to her soon, mark my words!"		James Quest Hint
1510	"Looking for ""work""?  You can find the Master Assassin somewhere in the Pit.  He'll have something for you.  There's always someone or something that needs killing, that's for certain."		James Quest Hint
1511	"Until recently, our local dragon Wromthrax the Heartless has confined his depredations to the hills in the south--eating goats, farm animals, and stray dogs.  But he has developed a taste for elvish blood, and now hunts us as well.  If you should care to confront him, his cave is in the north, west of the Mercenary Guild in the mountains.  He isn't always there.  Be careful--he is mighty."		James Quest Hint
1512	"What, you wanna be a crusader too?  This town is filling up with them, I swear!  Well, there's a crazy man living in the back of a building near the center of town.  People keep trying to sign up with him, and he keeps rejecting them.  Good luck."		James Quest Hint
1513	"Just a minute, let me check.  Mirror, mirror, on the wall… <the witch peers into her mirror for a few minutes, then sighs> It's still Alice Hargreaves.  She lives in Castle Gryphonheart.  She's quite a noble beauty, that girl is!  Takes me back to my youth, this one does."		James Quest Hint
1514	"One of our finest, most upstanding citizens is William Setag, considered by some to be the most black hearted villain alive.  As a matter of fact, he's one of our best agents.  Wizards and their ilk complain because they've been on the receiving end of his schemes too many times-- but he's about the best there is in his profession.  If you're looking for employment, go see him.  His tower is on the north shore of Deyja at a rather inaccessible point.  He doesn't like visitors, but he should be glad to see more students turn up at his door."		James Quest Hint
1515	"If you're looking for a teacher to begin serious monk training, speak with Bartholomew Hume--you can find him in the village south of the town of Harmondale."		James Quest Hint
1516	"I hear there are markings on the walls of the barrows that can be used to find your way around the tombs.  It'll keep you from getting lost, but it won't save you from the undead that defend those graves."		James Quest Hint
1517	"A few years back, a weird cult called the Temple of Baa moved into the area.  At first they seemed popular, what with their free offers of healing, but it soon became clear they were devoted to darkness.  No one goes up there very much, now, and it seems that whatever evil gods were backing them have withdrawn their support.  But they're up there still, lurking in the shadows.  Creepy."		James Quest Hint
1518	Lots of sheep have gone missing since the Baa cult moved in--and I mean lots.  No doubt they were taken to the Baa temple for sacrifice.  I'm going to go broke if someone doesn't do something about those cultists!		James Quest Hint
1519	"Ssspies abound in places like this, my friendsss.  If you wish your letters and communiqués to remain sssecret, you should use a cipher when you write.  There is a book in the Castle library that will explain everything, my friendsss."		James Quest Hint
1520	"Eight years ago, we sent a team of scholars to what is now the Red Dwarf Mine to study the strange creatures that would occasionally show up there.  The first thing we noticed was that Ooze ectoplasm makes an excellent potion catalyst.  The second was that ooze just can't be physically damaged--they split apart or squish, then run back together. If you want to kill one, you'll have to do it with magic."		James Quest Hint
1521	"There is a breed of Medusa infesting the Red Dwarf Mines that is immune to magic.  These monsters are a real terror!  I can only thank the Gods that these creatures haven't escaped the mine.  What would we do then, beat them to death with our staves?"		James Quest Hint
1522	"If you head south past the Wyvern Plains, don't go knocking at the door of that huge fortress you'll see standing in the middle of the water.  It's the Titan's Stronghold, and they don't much like visitors."		James Quest Hint
1523	Arena fighting is available to anyone who wants to practice against any kind of opponent.  You can get to the arena by visiting a stable on any Sunday and asking them to take you there.  		James Quest Hint
1524	"Arena Champships are held on each Sunday.  They are open to all--but be careful!  Your opponents are chosen by the Arena management, not you!"		James Quest Hint
1525	Every graveyard or ancestral burial place seems to have a haunted house nearby--and ours is no exception.  There is a mansion near one of the plateaus on the surface in the northwest.  It is most certainly haunted.		James Quest Hint
1526	Fear the touch of the Ghost as you fear the loss of your life.  It inflicts terrible spiritual wounds and drains your youth before your eyes!		James Quest Hint
1527	"A few wars ago, my great grandfather worked on an escape tunnel from the Elvish castle to the Tularean Caves.  I don't think it's ever been used--no attack on the castle has ever brought it down--but it sure is an interesting piece of history, don't you think?"		James Quest Hint
1528	"They say that elves are faeries, but in truth we are only distantly related.  The true faeries don't live in civilization, and they're just like the stories say--playful, cruel, magical, and dangerous.  But if you really want to meet them, you could visit them in their Hall under the Hill, as they call it.  It is just outside of the village, to the North and West.  It will be challenging to get to the front door... "		James Quest Hint
1529	"A while ago, I saw some men come to the Tularean Forest at night with axes and torches, following some sort of map.  When they left, they were laughing and happy.  It looked like they were carrying a big green rock.  My brother says they were a band of mercenaries from Tatalia.  Anyway, the next day was when the forest went mad.  It's too dangerous to go there now."		James Quest Hint
1530	"The Tularean Forest is so old that it has developed a mind…sort of.  The forest is vaguely aware of who walks through it, but only one part of the forest can communicate with people.  That's the oldest tree.  If you want to have a very long and slow conversation, it will be happy to oblige.  Look for it on an island to the south east of the forest.  It's larger than the rest of the trees.  You can't miss it."		James Quest Hint
1531	"Anyone needing to earn some spare cash can visit a town hall in any major city to pick up a bounty hunting assignment.  City councils are always fearful of the latest man eating monster or bandit or mad wizard, and set bounties on the creature that is bothering them most this month.  There's no rhyme or reason to their choices, so don't try to figure it out.  They often pay quite well."		James Quest Hint
1532	"If you ever get tired of amateur bounty hunts, and want to advance your career, speak with Ebednezer Sower in Avlee.  He only teaches followers of the shadow path, though."		James Quest Hint
1533	"Pirates been operating out of the tidewater caverns for twenty years.  They're not Regnans, and they aren't part of Bill Lasker's men, but they're still pretty mean.  You want to get in there, just get yourself out to the islands to the west."		James Quest Hint
1534	"Evenmorn Island isn't lost, so much as hard to get to.  It is surrounded by treacherous reefs, sandbars, whirlpools, and sharks.  If it's dangerous, the Island is surrounded by it.  There are only one or two safe ways in, and the map for those ways was stolen by pirates during the chaos of the recent wars.  They probably still have the map in their caves.  "		James Quest Hint
1535	"The boat captains would be happy to take any paying fare to Evenmorn island, but they don't have proper maps.  There's no way anyone is going to risk their ship in the reefs around the Island unless they have the map!"		James Quest Hint
1536	"Well, I don't have any golem parts--I never took that class--but there are students all over Bracada who have spare golem parts lying around.  They aren't worth anything unless you have them all, so they'll probably just give them to you for free."	x	James Quest Hint
1537	"You see all those golems walking around Bracada?  Every single one of them was made by the School.  Not bad for students, eh?  They don't have much to say, but they're tough guardians and can tell when a follower of Darkness is near.  You should see them go into action when one of those Necromancers or Warlocks wanders into our lands.  Zowwwwwieeee!"		James Quest Hint
1538	"Our astrologers have determined that the missing Divine Intervention text lies somewhere deep under the ground.  Under Deyja, to be precise.  They fear that the current incarnation of the text has fallen into the Breeding Pit--the Necromancer's version of our Proving Grounds.  Oh, what must we have done to offend the Gods so?  We will never retrieve the text from that forsaken place!"		James Quest Hint
1539	"The spell of Divine Intervention, the highest of the school of Light magic, has been missing for centuries.  It is a curse, we believe, for our lack of devotion and faith to the Light.  We struggle, and some go forth to find the spell, from time to time, but none have been successful.  Each time they find it, fate cruelly snatches it from our hands.  Our Grandmasters have been bereft of this final, great spell for as long as anyone alive can remember."		James Quest Hint
1540	"The only people in the world who make soul jars are the Warlocks of Nighon.  It is a secret of their profession--which is strange, since they have absolutely no use for them.  Still, we are forced to bargain for the jars in order to advance our craft.  Of course, we have wrested the jars from them, from time to time...but then they raise their prices in revenge.  It must be our fate to suffer so."		James Quest Hint
1541	"Every Necromancer aspires to be a Lich one day.  All you need is a Soul Jar, knowledge of the Ritual, and the magical skill to survive the journey to the Land of the Dead and return.  The body withers while the soul lives on in a glorious state free from hunger, disease, and injury.  Only shallow and superficial people would mind what the Ritual does to one's appearance.  True practitioners hardly notice."		James Quest Hint
1542	"Three circles of stones were built by the Druids long ago.  Since hearing of their locations ruins ascension attempts for would be Great Druids, I can only give you a general clue--All are in the open, unhidden and bare, and all are distant from settlements.  To tell you more would spoil your Ascension."		James Quest Hint
1543	"Originally, there were four Circles of Stone, one for each Cardinal direction and season, but the Eastern Circle was destroyed somewhere in Nighon during the wars between the Churches of the Sun and the Moon."	x	James Quest Hint
1544	"The graveyard does indeed hold the bones of the ancient King, but the hallowed land will curse any who disturb it.  I don't envy you this task.  Each grave you open will unleash its curse, and possibly some other trap.  Best be sure you're opening the correct grave when you begin to dig."	x	James Quest Hint
1545	"Though the barrows were built to deter thieves, a way was needed to navigate them during burials and ceremonies.  Near each of the gates you'll find a plaque.  These plaques are cryptic, but they will keep you from losing your way, as long as you use them.  No thief yet has realized their significance, so once they enter the barrows, they never leave."		James Quest Hint
1546	"We built a tunnel leading from our Thunderfist Mountain to the Land of the Giants during the War.  It was there we discovered the Kreegan, and more titans and dragons then you can imagine.  I suppose one who's familiar is to be a dragon could find eggs in one of the dragon caves of that terrible land.  'Ware the mother..."		James Quest Hint
1547	"I've heard legends that there is a dragon in the Land of the Titans greater than any that have come before.  Lesser dragons and titans do battle on the slopes of the mountain in which its cave resides.  This dragon is so huge, and so mighty that the other dragons feed it for fear it will one day leave its cave and devour them all in its fury.  The dragons believe it is a god.  If that is so, imagine its treasure..."		James Quest Hint
1548	Glad you found the way in the back door.  You probably avoided a really nasty ambush that way.  I hope my advice was useful!		
1549	"So…what goes around comes around, eh?  Good job with that Carmine traitor!"		
1550	The dragon is fallen--and at your hands!  You are a hero!		
1551	"The Baa cult is gone?  Well that IS good news!  Everyone is in your debt, whether they know it or not.  "		
1552	"Glad to hear the Baa cult has gone missing, instead of my sheep!  Good job!"		
1553	"I'm impressed--very few actually make it inside the fairy mound, or get very far."		
1554	"The forest is much safer now, thanks you to!  The oldest tree is very happy with you, and has included you in its history recitals."		
1555	"Oh, so the map is found?  What will you do with your newfound treasure?  Share it, I hope!"		
1556	"Now that you have the map, I guess you'll be going there soon.  Be careful--they say the island is cursed!"		
1557	"If you don't mind the swamp and fog, Evenmorn Island is a great place to live.  Of course, the Curse doesn't help--ghosts and skeletons roam the island freely--but other than that, the neighbors keep to themselves.  The Churches of the Sun and the Moon don't even fight each other very much anymore.  <Heh!> probably means they're running out of adherents..."		
1558	Divine intervention has been found and copied?  A miracle!  I never expected to see it in my lifetime!  		
1559	All the grandmasters are very pleased with you.  You have done our profession a great service!		
1560	"Since you've discovered the circles on your own they have worked their magic on you.  I hope you will refrain from telling others of their whereabouts, as I have done for you."		
1561	"During the wars between the Temples of the Sun and Moon, three statuettes were stolen from the shrines in the Bracada Desert, Tatalia, and Avlee.  I represent a group of Druids that want these shrines back to their original form-- it is critical for their worship.  To this end, I am offering a substantial reward for anyone that will find the statuettes and place them on the shrines."	Statuette First Time	
1562	All three statuettes are not placed.  I cannot reward partial success.  Return when you have placed all three.	Fail	
1563	"Great work!  The Druids are so pleased, they threw in a little extra for your fine performance.  Take this… you most certainly deserve it."	Success	
1564	"As you may have already guessed, I'm a collector of fine art.  Currently, I am looking for a set of paintings, one of King Roland, one of his brother Archibald, and one of the angel statue in the courtyard of Castle Ironfist.  This set is of great value, and, as a collector, I'm willing to pay quite handsomely for it.  If you should gather the entire set of paintings bring them back to me and I'll be sure to compensate you well for your effort."	Painting First Time	
1565	"You don't have any of the paintings.  I'm looking for the set containing Roland, Archibald, and the statue."	Brought None	
1566	"Remember, I need the complete set of paintings-- they aren't worth much by themselves.  When you have the rest, bring them all to me."	Have at least one	
1567	"Wonderful!  This set has eluded me for years!  You more than deserve the reward I promised; here, hopefully this will be sufficient."	Brought All	
1568	"To be declared ArcoMage Champion, you must win a game of ArcoMage in every tavern on, in, and under the continent of Erathia.  There are 13 such taverns sponsoring ArcoMage events.  When you have accomplished this, return to me to claim the prize."	Arcomage First Time	
1569	"You must claim a victory at ALL 13 taverns.  Until you do, you cannot be declared ArcoMage Champion."	Fail	
1570	Congratulations!  You have become the ArcoMage Champion!  The prize is waiting in the chest right outside my house.	Success	
1571	Here is the %s you have lost.  Be more careful in the future.	I lost it	
1572	You never had it.	I lost it	
1573	"People say the Dwarves live in the barren lands south of Harmondale, but that's not exactly true--They live UNDER them.  Look for their front gate in the center of the Barrow Downs where three bridges meet."		
1574	"Ever since the Warlocks of Nighon tunneled through Stone City from their island, travelers have been asking to pass through the city to get to Nighon.  The Dwarf King hates this, and would like to charge a hefty fee for people seeking to enter Stone City.  He has not started charging however, fearing political and possible violent repercussions with the Warlocks of Nighon."		
1575	"The Warlocks of Nighon live in Thunderfist Mountain--an extinct volcano on a large island a few miles from the mainland.  During the recent wars, the Warlocks tunneled through Stone City to transport their forces across the channel.  Those tunnels are still open and can be traversed."		
1576	"During the War, the Warlocks tunneled from Nighon through Stone City to get to the mainland and seize territory.  Even though they were pushed back to their island by Erathia, the tunnels remain."		
1577	Dwarves live under the ground of the Barrow Downs--a barren collection of ancient gravesites built by their race centuries ago to honor fallen kings and heroes.  Not all of the barrows can be reached on the surface--many are magically connected to each other through a system of teleporters and traps that protect the graves from those who would rob them.  If you look closely at the walls you should see markings that might help you navigate.		
1578	"We were making a fortune in the Red Dwarf Mines until the Medusas came!  We had to run before they turned everyone to stone.  Without our mining, we have almost no way to make a living.  Not the way for a proper Dwarf to live, I say!"		
1579	Bracada leased the land where we started the Red Dwarf Mine to us a few years ago.  That was until the Medusas came and took the mines from our people.  Only the Gods know what horrors go on in there now.  The mines were in the Northeast corner of Bracada.		
1580	"When the Medusas took the Red Dwarf Mines from us, not everyone escaped.  There are still several statues in the mines.  They can be rescued if their statues haven't been broken yet, but you would have to fight through the Medusas to do it."		
1581	"Do you like our city?  It's not just a hole in the ground--it's a home in the ground!  Dwarves have been working this mountain for centuries!  There isn't much mining left here, though, and what there is happens to be in unstable and unsafe tunnels.  Be careful if you go to the lower levels."		
1582	"Respectfully, my lords, I must say that no one expects you to last long because no other lords of Harmondale have lasted long.  The fighting and politics between Erathia and Avlee will claim you sooner or later.  Probably sooner."		
1583	"Rebellions here in Harmondale are rare, but we've had a couple of big ones!  Most of the time lords here don't last long enough to rebel against, but there've been some wicked ones!  Not that I think you're wicked, my lords."		
1584	"It's good to see someone in Harmondale again, my lords.  The castle's been standing empty since the War, except for the goblins.  But they don't count, I suppose."		
1585	"What with all the wars that Avlee gets itself into all the time, and all the high taxes, I've moved to Harmondale to stay.  Harmondale sees a lot of violence, but at least they don't conscript.  You know, there's been so many wars in Avlee that one of the kings had a tunnel dug from his castle to the caves in the North just in case the castle was taken AGAIN."		
1586	"A ways outside of Harmondale there's a cave system that's always been the home of bandits, monsters, and other ne'er-do-wells.  They're called the White Cliff Caves.  If you're ever robbed, or are looking for some evil doers to punish, all you got to do is go up there.  You'll find a fight for sure!"		
1587	"Did you notice that covered bridge on the way from Harmondale to Steadwick?  It's called Fort Riverstride, and it protects us from surprise Elvish attacks coming through Harmondale.  There's so many traps and tricks inside there, they say it will never fall without the help of treachery.  "		
1588	"There's an artifact that Avlee and Erathia have been fighting over for decades.  Both claim it was made by their people, and have lost the thing to raids against one another many times.  It isn't even magical--just a trophy.  Fifteen years ago, the trophy was lost during a raid, and no one knows where it went.  Recently, rumors have been flying, and the hunt's been on to figure out where it went.  If they find it--watch out!  Blood will be spilt. "		
1589	"Because of all the tension in the air, Erathia and Avlee hired an arbiter to help them work out their differences.  He's staying in the ""House of Stars"" on the eastern edge of Harmondale territory.  Maybe he has some advice for you."		
1590	"If you ever feel like you need advice on what next to do, or you've lost something important, go visit the Arbiter in the House of Stars near the Eastern edge of Harmondale territory.  He often knows where lost items went, or has advice on what you need to do.  I'm sure you'll find him helpful."		
1591	"The death of Judge Grey, Arbiter of Harmondale, has put the War on hold.  It's like the whole world is holding its breath, waiting for you to make a choice.  Better be careful who you choose--this sounds like a big one, my Lords."		
1592	"The proving grounds, called the Walls of Mist,  is the place where all the wizards in Celeste have to go before they learn the High Art.  I hear it is much more of a moral test than a physical one.  You aren't allowed to kill any of the monsters in the maze."		
1593	"The city of Celeste has been home to the Light for centuries.  It was established by King Magnus II  in 499 as the centerpiece to the Kingdom of Bracada, and as a beacon of hope to the rest of the world.  "		
1594	What you see on the surface in Deyja is only a small part of the true Kingdom of Death.  There is an underground city they call the Pit.  It can be reached from the surface only by way of the Hall of the Pit in Northern Deyja.  		
1595	"Celeste is the magical city built by the Wizards of Bracada centuries ago, and anchored half in the mountains, and half in mist high above Bracada.  You must use one of their teleporters to get there--you can find it near the center of Bracada."		
1596	"There was another murder, recently, that's been all the talk around town.  Another body--young woman, so I hear--was found near the sewers.  Drained of blood, for the love of Light!  It's those thieves living' in the sewers I tell you!  Rats, they are.  Someone should go down there and put them out of business!"		
1597	"During the War, the Warlocks had dealings with some strange creatures called the ""Kreegan"" in the mountains south of Avlee.  It's impossible to get there from the mainland, but the Warlocks dug a tunnel under the sea from their island that leads to the Kreegan's home."		
1598	"We…overplayed our hand during the War, and failed to win any territory on the mainland.  Our ""allies"", the Kreegan, turned out to be very untrustworthy.  People from Enroth call them devils--now we know why.  At just the moment when we needed them most, they turned and ran, leaving us to face the wrath of the armies of Erathia and Avlee.  Next time, we won't be so trusting."		
1599	"There's been quite a bit of activity in Deyja, people are saying.  It seems that Archibald Ironfist, the leader of Deyja (and former King of Enroth) has left the Pit for an island off the Eastern shore of Avlee.  A lot of Necromancers followed him there--seems there's some sort of split going on."		
1600	Rumors have been trickling out of Nighon that King Roland of Enroth may still be alive.  Some Warlocks have said that they personally saw him when they met with the foul Kreegan.  The rumors also say that the Kreegan are keeping him in a cage and mistreating him horribly.		
1601	"A Soul Jar is what a Necromancer needs to complete the Ritual and become a Lich--an immortal undead monster that retains its mind and memories from life.  It's pretty obvious that this is not a desirable condition for most people, which is why the market for these artifacts isn't very good.  Nonetheless, Necromancers will do almost anything to get more--their profession's very existence depends on them."		
1602	"People have been disappearing recently.  Not just one or two, but several every day!  They go to bed at night, and the next day they aren't seen and their houses are empty!  I certainly wish someone would find out what it happening!"		
1603	"So much for the mighty defenses.  Word is the Necromancers, led by Archibald Ironfist, teleported straight into Clanker's Laboratory and took over.  I'm told that treachery from within had something to do with it, though."		
1604	"Although the Warlocks are technically servants of the Dark, they usually aren't violent.  They will defend themselves if attacked, of course, but they won't start a fight unless you start it first.  They're quite reasonable, as a matter of fact, and they take their business seriously.  I've found dealing with them to be quite pleasant."		
1605	"The underground complex Clanker has created is surprisingly well defended.  The front door will keep out all magical attacks, and the island makes it difficult for any sort of large force to land on the island.  So far, Clanker has kept to himself, and no one has seriously tried his defenses, but his best protection comes from a series of teleport blockers inside the complex.  No magical invasion force can teleport past the front door until those blockers are brought down first."		
1606	"We made landfall on the western shore of Northern Avlee.  Walk into the sea from the farthest point west on the beach, and look around underwater.  The ship is unmistakable."		
1607	"The Lords of Harmondale!  Heroes, I say!  My cousin was one of the ones you rescued!  We are in your debt!"		
1608	Thank you for delivering our people from the medusas!  The Dwarves of Stone City will not forget you!		
1609	We owe you much for your daring rescue of our people.  Rebuilding your castle was the least we could do for you.		
1610	"Good day, my lords.  I must say the people are changing their minds about your chances of survival.  Everyone is saying how wonderful it is to have stable rulers in the Castle!"		
1611	It's good to see the Castle rebuilt and those loathsome goblin bandits evicted.  Things are looking better around here since you took over!		
1612	I've heard Fort Riverstride was taken with the aid of treachery!  What a shame that those wretches were able to wring concessions from the Queen in exchange for the return of what was already ours!		
1613	Looks like the trophy fell into the hands of Erathia.  I hear there was quite a fight over it! 		
1614	Looks like the trophy fell into the hands of Avlee.  I hear there was quite a fight over it! 		
1615	Looks like the trophy fell into the hands of the Arbiter.  I hear there was quite a fight over it! 		
1616	The death of Judge Grey was a blow to all of us.  I hope his replacement does his legacy justice.		
1617	"It looks like the consequences of your choice are just beginning, my lords.  I hope you chose wisely."		
1618	"So it was a vampire that was killing all those people!  I hear you're the ones to get rid of it, too!  Thanks!  Everyone feels much safer now."		
1619	"They say you are being credited with rescuing King Roland!  That's quite a feather in your cap, my lords!  QUITE a feather!"		
1620	"Looking for Expert instruction in one of your Skills?  Expert teachers for most Skills can be found in Harmondale, Erathia and the Tularean Forest. "		
1621	"Here's your weapon; if you find more ore, I'll be happy to make you more weapons."	Ore to weapon	
1622	"You need ore for me to create weapons.  The better the ore, the better the weapon I can make."	No ore	
1623	"Here's your armor; if you find more ore, I'll be happy to make you more armor."	Ore to Armor	
1624	"You need ore for me to create armor.  The better the ore, the better the armor I can make."	No ore	
1625	"Here is your item; if you find more ore, I'll be happy to make you more items."	Ore to Misc	
1626	"You need ore for me to create items.  The better the ore, the better the items I can make."	No ore	
1627	The signal rocket on the west side of the island should be set of to warn ships off from approaching to close to that side of the island.  The reefs off the west coast have proven deadly in the past.		James Hint
1628	Beware the marshes of the southern tip of the island.  The dragon flies that pester our town spawn there!  		James Hint
1629	"Fallen or dead trees can sometimes be the hiding place of some treasure or trinket.  However, it can also be home to insects or worse!"		James Hint
1630	"The teleporters of central Bracada can get you to numerous locations in the desert.  Just check the pillar in front of the teleporter for the location it will take you to.  Be careful however, some of the teleporters haven't been working correctly and will not show the destination!"		James Hint
1631	"My Lords!  Lord Archibald sent engineers and artisans to upgrade Castle Harmondale!  Now we have an upstairs and downstairs!  Lord Archibald also left gifts in chests in these new areas.  The artisans are setting up shop in the entry hall and will have many wonderful items for sale!  Oh, yes, the workers discovered an older area to the castle--a torture chamber and dungeon!  We are very lucky!  I never thought Harmondale could afford such luxuries, my lords!"	Butler Text	
1632	"My Lords!  Gavin Magnus sent engineers and artisans to upgrade Castle Harmondale!  Now we have an upstairs and downstairs!  Gavin Magnus also left gifts in chests in these new areas.  The artisans are setting up shop in the entry hall and will have many wonderful items for sale!  The workers, however, discovered an older area to the castle--a torture chamber and dungeon.  It isn't a pretty sight, I'm afraid."	Butler Text	
1633	"My Lords ::bows:: Now that you have cleared Castle Harmondale of the goblins and vermin, you should concentrate on removing the goblins from the area surrounding Harmondale.  To the east of here is the center of the disputed region.  Many great battles have been waged there between the forces of King Eldrich of the Elves and Queen Catherine of Erathia.  The goblins have taken the ruined fort in this area an use it to attack any travelers attempting to reach Harmondale!"	Butler Text	
1634	"My Lords, remember Castle Harmondale is YOURS.  Feel free to relax while you're here.  Your sleep will never be disturbed by attacking monsters, nor will anything you decide to store in the castle's chests ever be stolen or removed.  You are home."	Butler Text	
1635	"If you seek aid from Erathia, light the beacon fires near the roads to the Barrow Downs, Erathia, and the Tularean Forest.  The Erathian forces near here will see the fires and rush to your aid!"	Goblin Spy	
1636	My Lords. Castle Harmondale stands ready.	Butler Text	
1637	Pedestals can be found through out the land that can lend you temporary protection from certain types of magic. 		
1638	"::You receive a telepathic message:: My…Lords.  My name is Archibald Ironfist.  You've probably heard of me--it is I who, up until recently, was the ruler of the Pit.  With my retirement, I find myself no longer concerned with the affairs of state.  I know that we were adversaries, but I am forced to ask for your help.  In return, I think I can help you.With the aid of equipment I have found in my new laboratory, I have discovered that my brother Roland, husband to Queen Catherine of Erathia, remains imprisoned by the devils in their foul, ah, dwelling.  I overheard that you're on your way to do battle with them (this equipment really is wonderful), and I want to make sure it goes well.  My brother has stolen the key to their leader's chambers, and has hidden it in the beastly cage they're keeping him in.  Please rescue him!  Not even I can bear to think of my brother in those conditions!  To help you along, I offer this weapon.  It was...found by my loyal servant sergeant Piridak, amongst my advisor's personal belongings.  I hope it helps."		
1639	"::You receive a telepathic message:: My friends.  I know you are working with my old advisors, but I must ask for your help one more time.With the aid of equipment I have found in my new laboratory, I have discovered that my brother Roland, husband to Queen Catherine of Erathia, remains imprisoned by the devils in their foul, ah, dwelling.  I overheard that you're on your way to do battle with them (this equipment really is wonderful), and I want to make sure it goes well.  My brother has stolen the key to their leader's chambers, and has hidden it in the beastly cage they're keeping him in.  Please rescue him!  Not even I can bear to think of my brother in those conditions!  To help you along, I offer this weapon.  It was...found by my loyal servant sergeant Piridak, amongst my advisor's personal belongings.  I hope it helps."		
1640	"Our friend Tolberti has a job for you now.  Go to him, and he will instruct you."	Evil advisors (when Tolberti's quest is ready)	
1641	"Our friend Robert the Wise has a job for you now.  Go to him, and he will instruct you."	Good advisors (when Robert the Wise's quest is ready)	
1642	This 1000 gold will go a long way to keeping zombies off the roads.  Thank you for your contribution.	Ambush gave gold	
1643	"That's a shame.  What a coincidence, I think I see some zombies on the roads.  Perhaps next time you'll be more inclined to contribute."	Ambush didn't give gold	
1644	Excellent!  Here is a crate of Arrowheads.  Pip Hillier in Erathia pays the best prices for these. Be sure to see him!	Trading Triangle 1 1 Buy	2
1645	"Ahh, a shipment of Tularean Wood from my friend Robert Belknap.  I hope everything is well with him. Here's your payment."	Trading Triangle 1 1 Sell	2
1646	Here's your crate of Griffin Feathers.  Robert Belknap in the Tularean Forest pays the best prices for these feathers.  Be sure to give him my regards when you see him.	Trading Triangle 1 2 Buy	3
1647	Rydric has sent me another shipment of Arrowheads.  Wonderful!  Here's your payment.	Trading Triangle 1 2 Sell	3
1648	Here's your crate of Tularean Wood.  Be sure to take it to Rydric in Harmondale.  He will pay you well for them.	Trading Triangle 1 3 Buy	4
1649	Pip Hillier sends another shipment of Griffin Feathers.  Here's your payment.  Enjoy the day!	Trading Triangle 1 3 Sell	4
1650	"Thanks!  Here's your crate of Sand. Arvin Beneclowd in the forsaken Barrow Downs pays well for this Sand, from it he creates fine bottles!"	Trading Triangle 2 1 Buy	13
1651	"Ahh, a shipment of Enrothian Wine from Infernon.  This will warm the hearts of many! Here's your payment."	Trading Triangle 2 1 Sell	13
1652	Be sure to take this crate of Glass Bottles to Infernon in Avlee.  He bottles the finest Enrothian Wine.	Trading Triangle 2 2 Buy	11
1653	"Ahh, a shipment of Sand from Calindra Goldensight.  Here's your payment."	Trading Triangle 2 2 Sell	11
1654	Here's your crate of Enrothian Wine.  Take this to Calindra Goldensight in Tatalia and she will pay you well! 	Trading Triangle 2 3 Buy	14
1655	Arvin Beneclowd sends me another shipment of Glass Bottles.  Time to bottle some more Enrothian Wine.  Here's your payment.	Trading Triangle 2 3 Sell	14
1656	"You can charter a boat from this port to Erathia on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. Boats for the Bracada Desert leave on Mondays and Wednesdays. Boats leave for Avlee on Friday only. If you have completed the Priest quest you can charter a boat to Evenmorn Island on Sundays."	Boat Hint for area 13	14
1657	"If you are looking to make it quickly to Nighon through the tunnels below, you should take the left fork of the Nighon Tunnel.  Many have taken the right fork and have never been heard from again.  Then again they may have made it to Nighon only to be taken by the Warlocks!"	Hint NPC	14
1658	"Many traders all over Erathia hire out to travelers to deliver their goods!  If you are ever in need of some extra coin, try finding one of these merchants and make a delivery for them!"	Hint NPC	14
1659	"I can see your heart is in the right place, but your purse obviously isn't.  If you don't have the money, just say so.  In any event, good luck dealing with the zombies.  Ta-ta!"	"Ambush, not enough gold"	14
1660	You have failed the game!	Failed game	14
1661	You have failed the contest!	Failed contest	14
1662	You have failed the test!	Failed test	14
1663	You have failed the challenge!	Failed challenge	14
1664	You have already won!	Already won	14
1665	You win!  +3 Skill Points	Won Game	14
1666	You win!  +5 Skill Points	Won Contest	14
1667	You win!  +7 Skill Points	Won Test	14
1668	You win!  +10 Skill Points	Won Challenge	14
1669	What!  You wouldn't believe this fabrication would you?  I would never dream of sabotaging your rule here!  Gaahh!  Prepare to die!	Goblin spy (caught)	14
1670	"I have heard rumors that the shrine to the southeast of here can send you to the Land of the Giants.  I have been to the shrine many times and it has never done anything special for me.  Or is that you can get here, FROM the Land of the Giants? I wonder..."		14
1671	"Scattered around the land are the Challenges.  If your ability is great enough, and you best the challenge, you will be award skill points to do with as you wish!"		14
1672		Recruits and followers	14
1673	You know what they say, four is a company, five's a crowd. I'm not looking for the latter.	Recruits and followers	14
1674	Click again to dismiss 	Recruits and followers	14
1675	Click again to hire 	Recruits and followers	14
1676	Become %s.	Recruits and followers	14
1677	Yes, I'm the one you're looking for. Are you sure you want to walk the path of %s?	Recruits and followers	14
1678	Congratulations, %s!	Recruits and followers	14
1679	Your kind cannot become %s. Sorry.	Recruits and followers	14
1680	Good tidings. I am %s, %s %s. I'd love to see the world and taste the adventure, but it'd be foolish to go alone. Perhaps I could come with you?	Recruits and followers	14
1681	I cannot travel with you, your party is too full.	Recruits and followers	14
1682	apprentice,skilled,well known,masterful,great	Recruits and followers	14
1683	What wretch would want to deal with scum like yourself? Repent for your sins and do not show your face here until you do.	Recruits and followers	14
1684	Dragon ate enough! Let him grow.	Recruits and followers	14
1685	Choose name for your dragon.	Recruits and followers	14
1686	Dragon's name will be "%s", are you sure? (Y/N)	Recruits and followers	14
1687	Hatchling is too young to join you.	Recruits and followers	14
1688	Your party is too full.	Recruits and followers	14
1689	Dragon grown!	Recruits and followers	14
1690	You must have your own card deck to play here. _________________________________________	Misc	14
1691		Misc	14
1692	Feed dragon	Recruits and followers	14
1693	"Oh!  The Seal.  Here, I'm supposed to give you this money.  Now, go away before we're seen together!  Someone will get suspicious."		
1694	Don't try to say I didn't pay you!  You got your gold!  		
1695	"My instructions are quite clear.  I am to pay the person carrying the letter that bears the Seal.  Since you don't have a letter with a Seal, you get no money!"		
1696	"Just south of town is an old keep called Goblinwatch.  It was originally built to help keep the town safe from goblin raids, but times have been so peaceful recently that we haven't been taking care of it.  You can imagine our embarrassment when we realized that the very monsters we were guarding against have moved into the keep!  They also changed the lock on a very important door leading to the caves below the dungeon level.  We have a standing reward of 2000 gold pieces to the ones who can figure out the combination and tell us what it is."		
1697	How can you find the combination to that lock by standing around here?  Get going!		
1698	"Ah, thank you for taking care of that little detail for us.  Here's your gold!  Feel free to return to Goblinwatch any time to finish clearing out the rest of the monsters.  We can't pay you, but you can have anything you find there.  "		
1699	"You did such a fine job with the Goblinwatch assignment that we would like to employ you again.  A cult has moved into an old abandoned temple a few day's journey west of here.  To pay for their blasphemous activities, they've been robbing travelers using the road that leads to Castle Ironfist.  We've appealed to the regent to do something about these horrible cultists, but he says all his forces are occupied in the west, or some such nonsense.  We want it gone now, so we're willing to pay you 5000 gold pieces to get rid of them and bring us back the Chime of Harmony as proof you've done the deed."		
1700	"Without the Chime of Harmony, I'm not authorized to pay the reward money.  "		
1701	Good work!  Here's your gold!  I can't thank you enough for ruining that temple.  Now the road to Ironfist will be safe for travel again.		
1702	The road to Ironfist is much safer thanks to you.  You have our gratitude.		
1703	The proprietor of the Howling Moon is George Caniss.  It's a wonderful place.  Tell him I said hi!		
1704	"Thank you so much for bringing me these letters! <Wilbur begins reading the letters> I’ve been so worried…I see… This is not good news…Oh, no.  Traitors!  Traitors and conspirators everywhere!  I must organize an expedition at once! <Wilbur lowers his voice> I trust you will not speak to the prince about these letters– he is already too depressed and unhappy to hear more bad news.  And now I must see to the organization of the expedition.  Here is a bag of gold as a reward– you’ve earned it and my gratitude.  Now, if only I could find someone to finish looking for Lord Kilburn…"		
1705	"<Wilbur snaps his fingers> Say, you wouldn’t happen to be interested in taking care of a little detail for me, would you?  Lord Kilburn disappeared near Blackshire.  Find out what you can and return to me with the information.  If it is true that he has been slain by devils, return his shield to me if at all possible.  I will grant you my favor with the High Council, should you require it, and you can rest assured your compensation will be generous."		
1706	"Hmm.  No luck finding the shield yet, eh?  Well, do keep looking, will you?  It really is important that someone accounts for his whereabouts."		
1707	"If his shield was in my Castle, I think I’d be aware of it.  Perhaps if you were to leave, you may have better luck finding it…"		
1708	"Ah.  ‘Tis a sad day when so noble a Knight should fall to such foul monsters!  You have done a good thing, bringing his shield to me.  I shall ensure that he and his men receive all the honors due them.  I am in your debt, and you have my favor with the council.  Here is your reward."		
1709	"Well, you have my vote on the High Council.  I trust you implicitly.  I've sent a messenger instructing Slicker Silvertongue to vote for you on my behalf.  Now I'm quite busy, and must attend to other duties.  I'm sure you can take care of any problems and miscommunications that may arise in this matter.  Yes.  Quite right."		
1710	"I cannot thank you enough for uncovering that horrible traitor and his crimes against the throne.  I understand you are on a mission of some importance, so for Services Rendered to the Crown, it behooves me to offer you free use of the royal yacht for your travels.  It will take you as far as Hermit's Isle, if you need it to.  Once again, thank you!"		
1711	"I am the Foremost Paladin, and as such, I am the one charged with the promotion and keeping of the titles and responsibilities of paladinhood.  Those paladins who wish to perform a quest for the official promotion to crusader must rescue a damsel in distress.  Those of you who are not paladins will be awarded the title of honorary crusader, and all will be given a sizeable gold reward.  Return to me with said damsel and I will promote any paladins aiding in her rescue to the status of crusader."		
1712	"I know there is a shortage of damsels in distress, but this quest is the traditional test.  I really can’t bend the rules here.  Keep looking– I’m sure you’ll find someone.  If it helps, I hear Melody Silver, daughter of the noble John Silver, is being held captive by ruffians on the Island of Mist."		
1713	"I have heard stories of the daring rescue, and I am delighted that you have returned with Miss Silver.  I shall arrange to have her returned to her family at once.  Exemplary work!  I hereby officially promote all paladins to the status of crusader, and all non-paladins to honorary crusaders!"		
1714	"Well, then!  It is a fine thing to be promoted to crusader, but even finer a thing to be promoted to hero.  As you may have guessed by now, the condition for hero status is to slay a dragon.  I know this seems difficult, but tradition has its demands.  What’s worse, you can’t slay just any dragon, but must slay a named dragon.  Your task is to slay Longfang Witherhide and return with a claw or tooth as proof.  Fortunately, we know that Longfang lives in a cave in the mountains behind Castle Darkmoor.  He has slain at least twelve would-be heroes, so be careful!"		
1715	There is no use returning to me to talk about your quest.  I cannot change the rules or your quest.  Longfang awaits your avenging sword.  Now get to it!		
1716	"Well done!  One less horrible monster in the world is a good thing.  I hereby officially promote all crusaders to heroes, and all honorary crusaders to the status of honorary hero! May you long continue to live up to the title!"		
1717	It is always good to speak with heroes of the realm!  Come back in some less troubled time and we'll swap tales of honor and courage by the fire!		
1718	"The palace is deadly dull, and everyone tells me what to do.  Being royalty isn’t really worth much and no one will let me go outside the walls while my father is gone.  I haven’t left the castle for months!  Anyway, you people look pretty important.  What if you helped me sneak out and stay with you for a couple of days?  I can’t give you much in return yet, but I’ll owe you a favor.  Someday I’ll be able to repay you.  I am the prince, after all!  I’ll go out the secret door and meet you outside."		
1719	Let’s go see the circus!		
1720	It seems that Prince Nicolai disappeared while you were resting.		
1721	"Um.  Hi. <smiling weakly> Would you believe I got lost and these nice people were taking me home?  No?  I guess I wouldn’t either.  I suppose it’s time we got back to the castle, then."		
1722	We should go back to Castle Ironfist.	Bringing Nicolai home	
1723	"<Nicolai speaks to you> Well, thanks for sneaking me out of the castle.  Sorry about the circus thing– I hope I wasn’t too much trouble to find.  I’ll go in myself so no one will see that it was you who kidnapped me.  Thanks again, and goodbye.  I’ll remember this, and I owe you a favor! "	This text can only be accessed via an external event.	
1724	Thanks for bringing me home.  I owe you a favor!		
1725	"Everyone says that my Uncle Archibald wasn’t a very nice person, and that he almost usurped the throne from my father, but we defeated him.  Father had Tanir turn him to stone and then locked him in the library.  Nobody’s been in there for years. "		
1726	"You want to free Archibald?!  If the Oracle told you to do it, I guess we should, but he’ll be trouble once he’s loose, that’s for sure.  I know where the bell is that turned him to stone, but I can’t open the family vault that it’s in without the Third Eye.  It’s one of three gems you need to put into the door of the vault in order to open it.  I’ve got two of them– one in my father’s crown and one in his scepter, but my father hid the third one, and he didn’t tell me where it is.  If you could find it, I could open the vault and get the bell."		
1727	"Without the Third Eye, I can’t get into the vault to get you the bell that will release Archibald.  He must have hidden it near the castle, because he used to just go right outside and fetch it whenever he needed to open the vault."		
1728	"You found the Third Eye!  All right, wait here– the bell should be in the vault.  <Nicolai runs out of the throne room, returning a short while later> Ok, here it is! "		
1729	I hope you know what you're doing.  Everyone says my uncle is quite treacherous.		
1730	missing text 38		
1731	"Now wait just a minute Tanir, and I’ll make it worth your while to let me…Oh. <Archibald is silent for a long while> I guess I have you people to thank for releasing me from my prison of stone.  Thank you!  You say you need a spell that I've created?  <reaching to the shelves and removing a library scroll> Well, as a reward, I’ll give you the Ritual of the Void.  Use it in good health.  Now, I’m sure you’re very busy, as am I…<Archibald waves his arms and fades away>"	Archibald speaks	
1732	"Thank you for rescuing me from the clutches of those ruffians!  Oh, I wish there was some way for me to reward you!"		
1733	"Mine is the traditional duty to oversee the, um, less than upright business in the Kingdom.  My House has done this for centuries under the philosophy that such business will always exist and is better watched and regulated than not.  Recently, a man styling himself the 'Prince of Thieves' has begun to usurp my authority in Free Haven.  Not only does he challenge my authority, he cooperates with that loathsome new cult that’s sprung up recently…what’s it called?  Moo, or Yak, or Bark…no…whatever.  Some sort of animal sound.  Anyway, my sources tell me that this cult plots to overthrow the King and assume power in Enroth.  This is a bad business, and needs to be stopped.  You can start by arresting the Prince of Thieves and returning him to me in chains.  I will, of course, reward you richly.  "		
1734	missing text 42		
1735	"I have no information on his whereabouts, so it will do you no good to talk to me about it.  Try going to Free Haven and asking around.  He must have a hideout somewhere in or near that town.  <Smiling> if you find where he’s living, be sure to check under the bed and in the closet– you’ll probably find him hiding under a pile of clothes."		
1736	"Ah!  My friends, you have returned with the package!  Well done!  Here is your reward money.  You have my full support at the council. <looking at the Prince> Welcome to my humble home, mighty Prince.  I have a room prepared just for you.  Guards!  Take him away."		
1737	Your work in capturing the Prince of Thieves has been quite beneficial to me.  You have my full support on the High Council.		
1738	"In addition to my duties as overseer of unlicensed business, I am the High Priest of Enroth.  It is my job to promote clerics to priests, and if warranted, priests to priests of light.  Right now, the rolls are full of priests, and I am unable to promote new ones without creating new positions.  To do so would be highly irregular, but if someone were to perform an extraordinary service for the kingdom, the promotion would be acceptable.  <Rubbing his temples> Come to think of it, there is a service I need.  A temple in Free Haven was destroyed by fire a few months ago.  If you could get it rebuilt, I would have a reason to promote any clerics among you to priest status.  Since I really want this job done, I am even willing to promote non-priests to an honorary priest status, and I will pay you well for your service.  You’ll need to hire a stonecutter and a carpenter and show them the temple you want them to work on."		
1739	"The temple I asked you to rebuild still stands in ruins.  The people are deprived of their rightful religious solace, and you return to me empty-handed.  Leave here and complete your mission!  "		
1740	"Excellent work!  The temple has been rebuilt and the affront to the gods eased.  For this service, I am happy to promote all clerics to priests, and I grant honorary priest status to all non-clerics.  Congratulations! "		
1741	"It seems a bit quick to promote anyone to high priests, given that the promotion to priest has been so recent.  Why, many wait their entire lives to receive such a promotion, only to be granted it posthumously.  However, an extraordinary service could possibly accelerate that promotion to, well, right now for instance… and I do have such a service in mind.  The heretical monks that live on the islands east of Free Haven have stolen our sacred chalice.  Retrieve it from the monks and put it in the temple you rebuilt.  Then return to me."		
1742	"The monks still have the chalice, and our temple is still without it.  Why do you delay?"		
1743	"I see that you have recovered the chalice!  Good work, but you still need to ensconce it in the temple.  Take it there at once and return to me for your promotion!"		
1744	"You are successful!  It looks like I will have to keep my promise and make more irregular, early promotions.  I do so with pleasure.  I hereby promote all priests to high priests, and all honorary priests to honorary high priests."		
1745	"Though your rise to priest of light status was almost unseemly quick, I have never seen finer priests of light in all my years.  I am grateful for all you've done for myself and for Enroth."		
1746	"This is %s, the month of %s.  Journey to the Shrine of %s and pray there to be rewarded."	seer unfinished	
1747	You must wait until the new month to undergo a pilgrimage.	seer unfinished	
1748	performed daring deeds	btb award default	
1749	What have you lost?	seer unfinished	
1750	1	divine intervention	
1751	2	divine intervention	
1752	3	divine intervention	
1753	"I sometimes have the worst trouble trying to remember things I’ve learned.  I’m not sure why this is, but I’ve discovered a way around the problem.  I am going to create a mirror that will allow me to look back in time, so that I can remember what it is I’ve forgotten.  To do this, I need the Hourglass of Time, but my duties and research prevent me from searching for the hourglass on my own.  The hourglass is said to be in a dark cavern up near area… <pauses a moment>  No, that was the Spear of Darkness…  where is the hourglass?  <pauses again>  I should be able to remember this.  <snaps his fingers>  Of course!  It’s buried in an old fort to the south of here.  I can offer you my support in the council if you will help me in creating my mirror."		
1754	"Did you forget where the way out is?  I sometimes do.  I think it’s the large doors behind you.  Or is that the kitchen?  In any case, I’m sure the hourglass isn’t here, I would have found it by now if it was."	unused.	
1755	"I’m still looking for the mirror. <pauses> I mean Hourglass… I keep getting those mixed up.  Did you try the dark cavern– no wait, it was the old fort south of here.  I always seem to mix those up."	unused.	
1756	"Now all I have to do is remember how to create the mirror.  I wrote down all the important parts so I wouldn’t forget how to do it.  <stops> Where did I put those notes?  <ponders for a minute> I must have left them somewhere obvious, maybe in the laboratory.  Anyway, your part in this is done, and again I thank you.  You will have my complete support in the council for this.  What were your names again? "	unused.	
1757	"The hourglass wasn’t there?  Oh, that’s right!  I knew I forgot something!  The key is in there!  You use the key to open the Forge of… <pauses>  Well, I can’t remember whose forge it is, but that is the resting place of the Hourglass of Time...I think.  It can’t hurt to look there, especially now that you’ve found the key.  <pauses>  At least I THINK that’s what the key opens.  Anyway, that forge or laboratory or whatever it is can be found on the islands north of New Sorpigal.  Good Luck!"	unused.	
1758	Thanks again for getting the hourglass for me!  If only I could remember where I put it.  <sighs>  You have my support in the council for as long as you need it.	unused.	
1759	"I am the magus in charge of training and promoting sorcerers.  Though powerful, sorcerer is not the pinnacle of the elemental magician.  Wizards take the knowledge and ability of a sorcerer, and hone those abilities to a sharper level.  They have greater magical potential than the sorcerer, and demand greater respect.  The way to earn this training, however, is not easy.  Find the Fountain of Magic, drink from its waters, and return here.  If you are able to do this, I will train you in the ways of the wizard."	unused.	
1760	"I am the magus responsible for  the promotion of sorcerers.  Though none of you are sorcerers, I’m a fair man.  If you are able to locate the Fountain of Magic, I’ll grant you honorary wizard status.  You won’t receive any benefits of the wizards’ training, but you will gain more respect in the eyes of sorcerers and wizards.  "	unused.	
1761	"Don’t ask me for hints, I’ve already forgotten where the Fountain is.  I know this isn’t an easy task, but if it were not difficult, every sorcerer would already BE a wizard."	unused.	
1762	"You have done well in finding the Fountain.  It’s location and powers are a secret, do not spread its location around.  Now, let me show you the secrets of the wizard."	unused.	
1763	"Your training does not end with what you have learned as a wizard, one final step remains.  Master wizard status completes your mastery of elemental magic.  Building on your wizard training, master wizards have vast magical ability– the most efficient and skilled use of magic anywhere.  Earning this training requires a powerful artifact, owned by the powerful Arch Mage Drael-.. no, it was Frundir-… no, that’s not right either.  Actually, I can’t seem to remember what the artifact was or who owned it.  I'd remember it if I saw it, though.  I know it can be found in Corlagon’s Estate near the Mire of the Damned.  Search for it there and return it; I must have it to train you to become a master wizard."	unused.	
1764	"I’m sorry, but I still haven’t remembered exactly what it is you need.  I know you need to search Corlagon’s Estate.   "	unused.	
1765	"Great news!  I remember what you need to find!  The Crystal of Terrax!  Oh, you seem to have found it already.  Well, perfect!  I can train you to master wizards, then.  The first arch mage, Terrax, used this Crystal to master the elements.  Fire, earth, water, and air all formed together to make it, and from analyzing it he learned a great deal about elemental magic.  In addition, its effect on light led him to his discoveries of light and dark magic.  Since that time, the study of this crystal has guided every new master wizard.  Let me show you the secrets of the crystal. "	unused.	
1766	"I don’t have much time to talk right now– I have a lot to do.  I’m in the process of organizing a few campaigns to attack the devils along the western coast.  You must realize, as I do, that nothing in all of Enroth poses as much of a threat to our safety as they do.  I only wish the other Lords would assist me by contributing supplies and troops, or just helping in the planning of these attacks.  They spend more time bickering amongst themselves over borders and laws and trade than in helping me deal with the REAL threat.  The devils have an advance post in Kriegspire near the Sentinels.  From here, they are able to base small raids and gather intelligence on our forces.  I need you to sneak in and attack it, find what information you can on the location of any devil strongholds and patrol patterns, and destroy the place.  Do not let any of the devils escape!  Surprise and secrecy are our greatest weapons."	unused.	
1767	"Still here?  The demons are to the west, near the coast, not in my throne room!  Or are you THAT lost?  You have the information you need to complete this mission, all you need now is to go out and do it."	unused.	
1768	"Did you fail in your mission?  You didn’t allow the demons to escape, did you?  That post MUST be destroyed for any large attack against them to be successful.  As long as that post exists, your mission still stands. "	unused.	
1769	"Good job!  With the information you’ve brought back, we now have the intelligence we need to stage an attack on the devils, and with that post out of the way, we can hit them when they won’t expect it. I give you my full support in the council– hopefully the council will actually DO something for once."	unused.	
1770	"Excellent work in dispatching those devils!  Again, you have my thanks.  My support in the council is yours, at least until the threat of the devils is past.  Hopefully you can spur the council into action.  By the way, the information that you brought back has confirmed our suspicion about the enemy base.  It is definitely near the town of Sweet Water in Paradise Valley."	unused.	
1771	"I am the Armsmaster in charge of the promotion of all knights in Enroth.  Worthy knights can be promoted to cavaliers.  Cavaliers embody the spirit of action and the power of purpose.  Behind their courageous example, armies charge into battle and enemies flee in terror. However, to become a cavalier, you need to be nominated by a person of authority.  If you could get the nomination of a cavalier, that would be good enough for me.   "	unused.	
1772	"I am the Armsmaster in charge of the promotion of knights.  Unfortunately, none of you are knights, and therefore the skills I would teach you would be worthless.  However, if you so desire, you can attempt the task of a would-be cavalier.  Seek the nomination of a person of authority, a cavalier, for example, and return to me."	unused.	
1773	"Well there, you’re looking for a nomination to become cavaliers?  I was once a valiant knight in my day.  I fought with Roland in the Succession wars, though now I’m too old to do much good on the battlefield.  It’s good to see Osric keeping the traditions of the knights alive.  Tell him that I proudly nominate you to become cavaliers, and if he gives you any trouble tell him to come see me himself."	unused.	
1774	Congratulations!  I know you’ll make fine cavaliers.  I only wish I had my youth again to serve with Osric in a campaign against the devils.	unused.	
1775	"Come now!  A person of your fame and stature should have no problem being nominated.  Don’t tell me your fame is contrived– are you sure you deserve to be as famous as you are?  <laughs>  I’m jesting, calm down.  Seriously, I'd suggest looking in Free Haven or the village of Rockham.  I've heard a few cavaliers frequent the taverns there."	unused.	
1776	"Congratulations!  The nomination may not seem important, but we have a tradition that must be followed for this promotion.  As a cavalier, you need to understand that the traditions and values of the people need to be defended.  I gladly promote you to the rank of cavalier!"	unused.	
1777	"Ah, worthy cavaliers, the final step in your training is to become a champion.  A cavalier is a brave and noble warrior, but a champion is a power to behold.  No force can stand between the champion and victory.  Entire campaigns are decided on the bravery, decisiveness, and powerful example of the champion.  The task to complete this promotion, however, is difficult.  You must defeat a powerful enemy to prove your ability and determination.  The only enemy worthy of this task is a man known only as the Warlord, a dangerous and powerful warrior.  He commands a legion of evil knights, normally based to the northeast of  Icewind Pass.  Defeat him, bring back proof of your victory, and your promotion to champion is assured."	unused.	
1778	"You’re not scared of the Warlord, are you?  His terror needs to be put to an end.  You can’t become champion hiding underneath your bed or standing around looking at the walls– you need to go out and DO it!"	unused.	
1779	"Good job!  Excellent!  I wasn’t sure you’d make it back alive.  Kergmond had more potential than I realized, but you’re certainly more than a match for an army of Kergmonds.  You’ve proven yourselves worthy of the rank of champion. You must not be afraid to take up arms to defend what is right.  May your enemies fear your approach and your allies rally behind your courage. And now, I promote you to the rank of champion! "	unused.	
1780	"Memory Crystal Alpha – Hermit’s Isle.Memory Crystal Beta – Alamos.Memory Crystal Delta – Darkmoor.Memory Crystal Epsilon – Kriegspire."	unused.	
1781	Place the memory Crystals into the modules above.  All four Crystals are necessary to activate the Oracle.	unused.	
1782	"I am Melian, Guardian of Enroth.  Thank you for replacing my memory modules.  Archibald took them from here when I refused to give him any help in his battle for succession.  Your timing is impeccable.  The Kreegan have invaded our world, and you must try and stop them.  Unfortunately, Archibald’s attempts at extracting information from me have damaged me enough that I cannot help you directly now.  Instead, I can only give you advice.While most of the Kreegan can be slain with ordinary weapons and spells, the elite guards and upper echelon breeders have tougher skin and natural defenses that protect them from anything but very powerful weapons.  In the planetary control center beneath me are the weapons and armor you will need to survive battle with the enemy.  My orders, however, will only permit passage to someone with a Control Cube.  My instruments tell me that the only Control Cube left in Enroth can be found somewhere underground in Dragonsand.  "	unused.	
1783	"You now have access to the Control Center.  Simply ask to be transported and I will oblige.  One warning however– the guardians of the Control Center are no longer under my control, so please exercise caution while visiting the Center."	unused.	
1784	"As I said, the Kreegan are resistant to most of the weapons available in Enroth, but not all.  To rid the world of them, you will need to find where their vessel crashed and destroy the main reactor.  The only problem is that the resulting explosions from the reactor will destroy this planet.  You will need a powerful spell to prevent the explosion from damaging the planet, but no spell like that exists in the world today.  The only person I can think of that would know of such a spell is Archibald, but he is in no condition to teach you.  To make matters worse, the reactor cannot be harmed by normal weapons or spells– you will need the ancient weapons in the Control Center to destroy the reactor."	unused.	
1785	"Though my memory has been damaged by Archibald, I can still remember the danger that our ancient enemy, the Kreegan, pose to our world.  The Kreegan first appeared roughly 1500 years ago, attacking outlying colonies and stealing their resources.  It was thought at the time they simply needed certain minerals, and could be reasoned with, but this was not the case.  Their life cycle forces them to breed until the world cannot support their numbers, then they send ships off to other worlds to renew the cycle.  Their attacks against the empire of the Ancients disrupted the network of shipping and communications that held us all together, causing the Silence that marks the first year of our modern calendar.  Without support from the homeworlds, our fledgling technology failed, bringing us to this sorry state.  I would help rebuild our technology, but I seem to have become a religious figure in the minds of many people, and very few visit me or understand what I have to offer.  Perhaps this Kreegan crisis we face will bring people to their senses--as long as we survive it."	unused.	
1786	"I happen to know that you are amongst a short list of adventurers looking to receive favor from the High Council.  What you want it for I don’t know, nor do I care.  I’ll be blunt:  I love money, and I want more.  Much more.  I have a plan to fix the price of shipping in my favor for a time and I need competent agents to carry it out.  Perform this task well and I will give you my support, not to mention a lot of money.  Here is the plan:  Each of the nine shipping companies in the Kingdom must be convinced to charge at least 48 gold per pound per mile of material they transport.  They are all in competition and they know it, so none will want to make a move before the others.  I don’t care how you convince them– just get the job done and report back to me."	unused.	
1787	"Not all of the companies have agreed to raise their prices!  Why do you return only to report incompetence?  There are large profits I could be reaping if you had done your job and convinced these idiots to raise their prices!  MUST I DO THIS MYSELF?  Should I send someone else?  Why do I surround myself with MORONS?!  So far I have lost a lot of gold because you haven’t finished your job!  I’ll deduct these losses from your final payment, you can be sure of that!"	unused.	
1788	"At last!  Thought you would never finish.  Maybe you’re good for something after all.  You have won my support in the council, and of course, your payment. "	unused.	
1789	"If you're concerned about the suffering of the peasants over my price increase, don't be.  I did it all for a good cause.  I needed to raise money for granaries to store the excess grain we are harvesting this year.  The shipping prices are back down, and the availability of cheap, high quality grain more than makes up for it.  There!  I'm not so horrible, am I?"	unused.	
1790	"Although it may be hard to believe, I happen to be one of the top druids in the land.  As such I am empowered to promote druids to great and arch druid status, provided they prove themselves worthy.  To be promoted to great druid status, you must perform the Ceremony of the Sun.  Pray at the center of the Circle of Stone during any equinox or solstice– March 20th, June 21st, September 23rd, or December 21st.  If you are there at that time, I will contact you magically and lead you through the Ceremony, thus promoting you to great druid.  Those among you who are not druids will be granted honorary great druid status, and I am sure the experience will be worthwhile."	unused.	
1791	You must pray at the center of the Circle of Stone during an equinox or solstice to complete the Ceremony of the Sun and be promoted to great druid.  There is nothing I can do for you to be promoted until then.	unused.	
1792	"<Loretta Fleise contacts you via a telepathy spell> Welcome to the Ceremony of the Sun.  Stand ye in the circle of life and face the north while no shadows stretch before thee.  Meditate upon this truth:  “Money is everything.  I have no truer a friend than money…” <grinning> Just kidding.  Now, close your eyes, and meditate as you stand at the center of the world and time for just this one, sublime moment… <long, silent pause>  Open your eyes.  I hereby promote all druids to great druids and all non-druids to honorary druids. <Loretta fades away> "	unused.	
1793	"So, you believe you are deserving of the title of arch druid.  You must complete the Ceremony of the Moon to achieve arch druid status.  This used to be rather easy before the factional split amongst the last generation of druids, but now you must fight your way to the sacred altar.  It is in the Temple of the Moon, currently controlled by the evil heretic Cedric Druthers.  There is no way they will just let you complete the ceremony peacefully, so you will probably have to fight your way in.  Like the Ceremony of the Sun, the Ceremony of the Moon must be performed at a certain place and time.  Pray at the Altar of the Moon in the Temple of the Moon at midnight during any full moon.  If you are there at that time, I will contact you magically and lead you through the Ceremony."	unused.	
1794	"<Loretta Fleise contacts you via a telepathy spell> Welcome to the Ceremony of the Moon.  Stand ye before the altar of the Moon facing south.  Close your eyes and meditate upon the Circle of Seasons and the Wheel of Life.  <long, silent pause>  Open your eyes, my friends.  I hereby promote all great druids to arch druids, and all honorary great druids to honorary arch druids.  <Loretta fades away> "	unused.	
1795	You must be standing before the altar of the Moon at midnight on any full moon to complete the Ceremony of the Moon and be promoted to arch druid.  There is nothing I can do for you to be promoted until then.	unused.	
1796	"The earth is wounded in the west.  I can feel it, my fellow druids, and if you put your hand to the ground and listen with your heart, you'll feel it, too.  I am bound here with my responsibilities, but I urge you to investigate the source of this pain.  I am sure the wound and the Night of Shooting Stars are related.  "	unused.	
1797	"I grow tired of winter.  In my lands, winter seems to last year round.  As a matter of fact, for the last few years, summer didn’t arrive at all.  I have come to believe that something is wrong with the weather, and I want something done about it.  I know your reputation, and I hear you can do anything.  I have a deal for you.  End the winter in my land and I will give you my support in the High Council when it comes time for you to ask for it.  If it's any help at all, I hear there is hermit on a mountaintop somewhere west of here who has studied the weather in detail."	unused.	
1798	"Do you think you could hurry this miracle thing along?  The snow on the ground is building up, and we are going to have to start putting buildings on stilts!"	unused.	
1799	I was looking out my window when the weather broke and the snow vanished!  A miracle!  A genuine miracle!  You have done my people and me a great service.  <Slapping his chest> Count Erik Von Stromgard as your friend forever!  	unused.	
1800	"For your services, I grant you my favor in the High Council!  Long may you live, O enemies of Winter!"	unused.	
1801	"20 years ago, I won the annual archery competition held at Castle Ironfist, and I have held the championship ever since.  This gives me the right to promote archers to the title of warrior mage and master archer as I see fit.  I’ll grant the title of warrior mage to all the archers amongst you if you do me a little favor. I need the key to the old Dragon Towers set up near every major settlement in Enroth to shoot down flying creatures.  I think that they can be set to shoot down only monsters, instead of shooting anything flying through the air. Since this is something of a pet project, I will reward honorary warrior mage status to the rest of you.  The key is in my old keep near the southern entrance to my lands.  I had to leave it there when the ogres and their companions took it from me a few years ago.  Return with that key and be rewarded.  And I won’t be crying in my beer if you kill a lot of those monsters while you’re at it.  They took my keep!"	unused.	
1802	No key—No reward.  Our deal is simple and straightforward.  Fetch the key from my old keep and return once you have it.  	unused.	
1803	"Very good!  You got the key, and hopefully slew a large number of those loathsome beasts.  I hereby promote all archers to the status of warrior mage, and all non-archers to honorary warrior mage."	unused.	
1804	"The reason I wanted the key was to open the Dragon Towers and make the adjustments to prevent them from shooting flyers indiscriminately.  There is a way to adjust the towers to shoot at only large objects, and I want all of them adjusted for the good of the Kingdom.  Magic is becoming more common, as are stories of young Sorcerers getting shot from the sky because they didn’t know the function of the towers.  You have the key.  If you adjust all of the towers to shoot at only large objects, I will promote all warrior mages amongst you to master archers and promote any honorary warrior mages to honorary master archers."	unused.	
1805	"Hmm.  Not all of the towers have been reset.  They are easy to find, if a bit long in getting to.  The easiest is in Whitecap to the west of us."	unused.	
1806	"You’ve had a measure of success in resetting the towers, I see, but the job isn’t done yet.  There are still towers unadjusted.  Finish what you’ve started and return to me to receive your reward."	unused.	
1807	"I knew my faith in you was well placed!  You have fixed a major problem in our kingdom, not to mention doing yourself a favor—It’s now safe to fly above towns.  It is my pleasure to promote all warrior mages to master archers, and all honorary warrior mages to honorary master archers.  "	unused.	
1808	"Welcome, master archers!  You may warm yourself by my hearth any time!"	unused.	
1809	"I like it up here.  It’s as though I can watch the world turn from up high and all alone.  Serene.  Untouchable.  Almost…Prophetic.  I can see the clouds churn and travel, break apart and mix together.  I can predict the weather almost perfectly.  <Smiling> Right now, I predict more snow."	unused.	
1810	"So, Stromgard needs a miracle with the weather, eh?  All this time I thought he was the one responsible for making it snow continually.  I can break the enchantment on the weather easily, and if you hurry back to him, I’m sure you can claim responsibility."	unused.	
1811	"As grateful as I am for your company, I am, in fact, a hermit.  I'm sure you have plenty of important things to do and don't need to be cluttering up my house any longer."	unused.	
1812	"Well met, champions!  Please, don’t waste your valuable time or mine in times like this.  Use your skills for the good of Enroth and leave me to my planning!  When this battle is over, THEN we can share tales of valor and skill."	unused.	
1813	"Hello there!  Are you here to tile the floors?  Oh!  Sorry, for a moment I forgot who you were!  Welcome again, arch mages!  Perhaps you can assist me in an experiment or two when you’re less busy?"	unused.	
1814	"I am only allowed to vote on the issues that Lord Temper specifically instructs me on.  Garner his approval, and on his recommendation, I will vote in your favor."	unused.	
1815	Osric has instructed me to vote for your cause.  I give you my full support in his name.	unused.	
1816	Lady Fleise could not possibly care less about your problems and I will therefore not even consider your request.	unused.	
1817	"You have my vote, in Loretta’s name, to visit the Oracle."	unused.	
1818	Lord Stone has not authorized me to vote in your behalf.  You will need to take this matter up with him.	unused.	
1819	"Anthony backs your request to visit the Oracle, and I give you my vote on his behalf."	unused.	
1820	"I cannot vote on matters that do not concern Lord Stromgard.  Until you have his backing, I cannot vote for you."	unused.	
1821	"I vote for you to visit the Oracle, as instructed by Eric von Stromgard himself."	unused.	
1822	"Until I receive favorable word from Lord Newton on your request, I cannot give you my backing."	unused.	
1823	Albert has given me permission to back your request to visit the Oracle. 	unused.	
1824	"You have not adequately demonstrated your loyalty to my liege, Lord Humphrey, and I cannot give you my vote."	unused.	
1825	"As long as I am a member of this council, you will not be permitted to visit the Oracle.  I am not convinced of your sincerity and will not grant your request."	unused.	
1826	"Do not believe you have won!  Soon the Iron Fist will lose its grip, and I will be your king!  And you can be sure I won't forget you…"	unused.	
1827	Curses!  Foiled again!	unused.	
1828	"Well, If Loretta's got a new scheme, count me in!  But you better get all the other companies to sign up!"	unused.	
1829	You're already a member of this guild.	unused.	
1830	"I am the one you need to speak with in order to join the Guild of the Elements.  The cost to join is 100 gold pieces.  Only members may purchase spells from our fine library.  The guild has spells from all four of the elemental disciplines, and like all guilds in the kingdom, we have two guild halls.  Membership in one automatically enrolls you in the other."	unused.	
1831	"It is my sacred duty to accept donations for the Guild of the Self.  If you contribute 100 gold pieces, we will grant you guild member status.  Members are permitted to buy spells from any Guild of the Self in the land."	unused.	
1832	"Pssst…Wanna buy membership in the Buccaneers' Lair?  We have two chapter houses in the kingdom, and we support our members by teaching them certain valuable skills.  I'm sure you know what I mean.  All we want is 25 gold pieces, and our services are at your disposal."	unused.	
1833	"Hi.  I'm the guild recruiter for Protection Services, a 'special' guild sanctioned by Lord Anthony Stone to sell protection to merchants, whether they want it or not.  But we aren't all thugs– we offer legitimate services and classes, too.  Membership in the Protection Services Guild costs 50 gold, and entitles you to buy classes in any skill we teach."	unused.	
1834	The Smugglers' Guild doesn't just run contraband goods past customs inspectors– it offers schooling in all the skills a smuggler needs to excel in his chosen profession.  All our members get access to the finest teachers in the business.  All we ask is a one time guild membership fee of 50 gold pieces.	unused.	
1835	"HEY!  The Blades' End mercenary's guild wants YOU– provided you're willing to pay a small fee to join.  For 25 gold pieces, we'll give you access to teachers for many of the skills a good sword for hire needs to succeed.  "	unused.	
1836	"The Duelists' Edge mercenary guild offers valuable teachings in all the skills that a warrior on the go needs to know.  For a one time fee of 50 gold, we'll give you access to not just one of our fine guild halls, but BOTH of them.  Remember, ours is the only guild that teaches the valuable repair skill."	unused.	
1837	"The only way to get someone to teach you how to properly wear plate armor, short of a four year stint in the Iron Army, is to join the Berserkers' Fury mercenary guild.  We teach many other skills as well, so our modest fee of 50 gold pieces to join for life is really cheap."	unused.	
1838	"If you already have membership in the Guild of the Elements, I'm sure you've found that their 'fine library' doesn't measure up to your exacting standards.  That's why I urge you to pay your dues at the Guild of Air.  Since we concentrate on air magic, you're more likely to find what you're looking for.  And the price is low, too!  Just 50 gold for a lifetime membership."	unused.	
1839	"Membership in the Guild of Earth will give you access to our excellent library of earth spells.  Like all the spell guilds, we have two guild houses, and membership in the one automatically enrolls you in the other.  The cost to join is but 50 gold pieces."	unused.	
1840	You may have noticed all the monsters and hostile people running around the kingdom lately.  Defending yourself can be tough with the simple spells the Guild of the Elements teaches to its members.  What you need is fire power!  The Guild of Fire has the most destructive spells short of dark magic known to man.  50 gold pieces gives you access to our excellent library.	unused.	
1841	"Membership in the Guild of Water gives you the right to buy our spells of change and movement.  It's my job to recruit new members and collect membership dues from them.  The price is 50 gold, and that includes membership in both our initiate and adept guild halls."	unused.	
1842	"I am the guild recruiter for the Guild of Body.  We are aware that many people think the simple healing spells available at the Guild of the Self are adequate, but we assure you they're not.  If you join our guild, you'll have the opportunity to purchase much more effect Body magic spells.  The cost is 50 gold pieces."	unused.	
1843	"The greatest mind magic spells cannot be found in the Guild of the Self– they can only be found at the Guild of the Mind.  I am empowered to sell membership to the Guild of the Mind for 50 gold pieces.  We have two guild halls, and membership in either is one and the same."	unused.	
1844	"When death strikes, often the measures an individual takes to prevent financial loss to the grieving family are inadequate, resulting in devastating burial costs.  The best way to prevent these costs is to invest in a Raise Dead or Resurrection spell purchased by the friendly folks at the Guild of Spirit Magic.  Yes, members enjoy full access to our luxurious and well stocked libraries for a small one time charge of 50 gold.  Act now and set your mind at ease!"	unused.	
1845	"Light magic represents the most powerful magic a person can wield without cost to his soul.  Unavailable anywhere else in the kingdom, we feel confident our price of 1000 gold pieces for guild membership is fair."	unused.	
1846	"I know what you want– power.  You're tired of half-hearted spells that nick and cut your enemies but do no real damage.  Let me introduce you to the Guild of Dark.  Our spells are the strongest in the land, plain and simple.  Membership in our guild costs but 1000 gold."	unused.	
1847	Join the Elemental Guild for 100 gold	unused.	
1848	Join the Self Guild for 100 gold	unused.	
1849	Join Buccaneers' Lair for 25 gold	unused.	
1850	Join Protection Services for 50 gold	unused.	
1851	Join Smugglers' Guild for 50 gold	unused.	
1852	Join Blades' End for 25 gold	unused.	
1853	Join Duelists' Edge for 50 gold	unused.	
1854	Join Berserkers' Fury for 50 gold	unused.	
1855	Join the Air Guild for 50 gold	unused.	
1856	Join the Earth Guild for 50 gold	unused.	
1857	Join the Fire Guild for 50 gold	unused.	
1858	Join the Water Guild for 50 gold	unused.	
1859	Join the Body Guild for 50 gold	unused.	
1860	Join the Mind Guild for 50 gold	unused.	
1861	Join the Spirit Guild for 50 gold	unused.	
1862	Join the Light Guild for 1000 gold	unused.	
1863	Join the Dark Guild for 1000 gold	unused.	
1864	You must be a member of this guild to study here	unused.	
1865	"For your numerous crimes and evil deeds, you have been sentenced to one year in prison. "	unused.	
1866	"Followers of Baa and a band of cutpurses have been raiding Mist from the islands to the north.  They come to Mist through a teleporter on the northwest of the island.  I'll activate the teleporter so that you can get to their islands and get rid of them.  I'm sure they have all the things they've stolen on those islands, and you can get back from their teleporter.   "	unused.	
1867	You never found it.	unused.	
1868	Here is the %s you have misplaced.  You must be more careful in the future.	unused.	
1869	"Slicker Silvertongue refused my order?  This must be treason!  Still, I've known him so long, and he's never disobeyed an order before…perhaps he is suffering from delusions.  Yes, that's it.  He's been spending so much time investigating that horrible Baa cult that it's affected his mind– I even found one of their cloaks in his room.  Perhaps you can find a cure for him.  They must surely know what they've done to him!  I would start at their headquarters east of Castle Kriegspire.  Here, take the cloak– perhaps you can find some use for it."	unused.	
1870	"Oh, my!  It appears that Slicker Silvertongue really is a traitor!  Who ever would have guessed it?  You've done a good thing, bringing this letter to me.  Take it to High Council immediately so we can be rid of this wicked traitor for once and for all!"	unused.	
1871	Please hurry in your quest to find Slicker Silvertongue's cure!  I am sure the poor man must be suffering horribly under their dreadful mind control spell!	unused.	
1872	"Welcome to the Circus of the Sun!  We have a variety of games for your amusement.  You can take the prizes you win from the various games and trade them in here for either kegs of wine or golden pyramids.  You need at least 10 points to get a keg of wine, and 30 or more points will win you a golden pyramid.  In case you didn't know, each lodestone is worth 1 point, each harpy feather is worth 3 points, and each four leaf clover is worth 5 points.  "	unused.	
1873	Missing Text:  Circus Main Tent Trade for Prize	unused.	
1874	"I'm sorry, but you don't have 10 points yet.  Why don't you try a few more games?"	unused.	
1875	"Congratulations!  You win a keg of wine!  There are no limits on the prizes here, so keep playing!"	unused.	
1876	"Congratulations!  You win a golden pyramid!  Good work– remember there are no limits on the prizes, so keep playing!"	unused.	
1877	"Welcome!  To play my game, simply pay 50 gold and step right up to compete against me.  Depending on how well you do you can win either a lodestone, a harpy feather, or a four leaf clover.  If you do poorly, you win nothing.  You can trade in your lodestones, feathers, and clovers in the main tent."	unused.	
1878	"Too bad!  You came pretty close.  For 50 gold, I'll give you another chance."	unused.	
1879	"Good job, I thought I had you there.  You win a lodestone!"	unused.	
1880	"Excellent work, you win a harpy feather!"	unused.	
1881	"Incredible!  Are you sure you didn't cheat?  Well, a rule's a rule.  Here's your prize– a four leaf clover!"	unused.	
1882	"As part of the effort to rebuild the Temple here in Free Haven, I'm collecting temple gongs.  If you have any gongs, I'll pay you 2000 gold for each of them."	unused.	
1883	"This one's a little dirty, but I suppose it will do.  Here is the gold I promised you for it.  Thanks for your help!"	unused.	
1884	"I'm looking for bones to use in my rituals.  I prefer bones from humans or humanoids, but I suppose I can make do with whatever you find.  I'm willing to pay up to 1000 gold for bones that I can use."	unused.	
1885	Hmm...  A leg bone of a human?  This will do nicely.  This bone is certainly worth 1000 gold.  	unused.	
1886	"Many people aren't able to visit the circus, so I'm collecting circus prizes to give away to those not able to visit it themselves.  I'll buy lodestones for 5 gold each if you want to part with them."	unused.	
1887	Thank you!  You're too generous– this will make a lovely gift.  Here's the 5 gold I owe you.	unused.	
1888	"My daughter wants to go to the circus, but we never have the time when the circus is near here.  I'd love to give her a bunch of the pretty harpy feathers for her.  I'll take any harpy feathers you have for 10 gold each."	unused.	
1889	"Thanks!  Don't tell my daughter about this, I want to surprise her.  Here's the 10 gold."	unused.	
1890	"I've heard that you can get really nifty things from Abdul's Desert Resort if you pay with golden pyramids.  I'm hoping to go there one day, and I want to stock up on the pyramids now.  I'll take any golden pyramids you have for 1000 gold."	unused.	
1891	"Welcome, adventurers!  Did you have something for me?  I'm a very busy man, you know.  "	unused.	
1892	I can help you become an expert in the use of the staff as a weapon.  All you need is an intermediate skill in the staff (Rank 4) and 2000 gold.	unused.	
1893	"Not to brag, but I'm the best staff fighter in the land.  I will teach any student who is already an expert with the staff and has a high degree of skill (Rank 7) for 5000 gold."	unused.	
1894	My teaching can improve your sword technique.  You must already be of intermediate skill (Rank 4) to benefit from my advice.  I charge 2000 gold per student.	unused.	
1895	"I am amongst the finest swordsmen in the land.  I will teach students who possess a high degree of skill (Rank 7) for 5000 gold. I won't waste my time with anyone else."	unused.	
1896	"Wanna learn a few tricks with the dagger?  You've come to the right place, my friend.  I'll teach you if you already know a thing or two with a dagger (Rank 4), and of course can pay my fee of 2000 gold."	unused.	
1897	"The dagger is a quick and subtle weapon that needs more brains than brawn to use.  If you're already skilled enough (Rank 7), I can train you to master rank for 5000 gold."	unused.	
1898	"Using an axe is trickier than you think.  If you've already had some practice with the axe (Rank 4), I'll be happy to show you the finer points of splitting skulls.  My fee is 2000 gold."	unused.	
1899	"So, you want to train your axe skill the dwarven way?  My tutorage will show you how to dramatically increase the damage you inflict with an axe. I require a high skill (Rank 7) and 5000 gold."	unused.	
1900	"It takes practice to use a spear right.  You have to know how to keep your enemy from getting past the point, and what to do when he does.  If you have enough skill already (Rank 4), I can show you the right moves.  All I want is 2000 gold for my services."	unused.	
1901	"A little practice with the spear keeps you from making deadly mistakes in battle, but a lot more practice will help you get the best results from your spear.  I will teach you the secrets of the masters if you've already had a little practice (Rank 7).  My fee is 5000 gold."	unused.	
1902	Learning to use a bow quickly and accurately is a skill that can take a lifetime to master.  I can start you down that road if you've already had some basic training (Rank 4) and 2000 gold in your purse.  What do you say?	unused.	
1903	"Many years ago, I discovered a technique for firing twice as many arrows as the conventionally trained archer can in the same amount of time. My teaching costs 5000 gold, and you must already be highly skilled (Rank 7) in the bow."	unused.	
1904	"A lot of people think there isn't much finesse in using a mace or hammer, but they're wrong.  Beating something to death with a mace is a lot like playing the drums.  You have to target the hard, bony parts of your enemy so your weapon will bounce back quickly, cocking itself for another strike.  I can teach you this technique if you already have a little skill (Rank 4) for 2000 gold."	unused.	
1905	"A master of the mace can strike enemies senseless with a single blow.  I've been practicing this technique for years and have it down to a science.  If you have the skill (Rank 7), I can teach you my technique for 5000 gold."	unused.	
1906	"No weapon today can match the power of the weapons from the Time of Wonders.  I'm not sure any of those ancient weapons exist anymore, but I can show you some tricks if you find one.  Really!  I'm not crazy!"	unused.	
1907	"Long ago I found an old weapon that fired sunlight and could kill almost anything I used it against.  I killed so many dragons, it got to be routine.  I could shoot them out of the sky like big, slow ducks.  One day, it just stopped working, and my career as a dragon slayer ended.  If you ever bring me one, I'll show you how to use it right for 5000 gold."	unused.	
1908	"Used correctly, a shield makes a big difference in a fight.  You have to defend yourself if you're going to have a chance of winning.  I can give you a some advanced training if you've already practiced a little (Rank 4) and have 2000 gold to spend."	unused.	
1909	"It's easy to use a shield, but hard to use it right.  I can drastically improve your defense if you give me the chance.  Since I only offer extremely advanced training, you have to be an expert student (Rank 7) before I can help you.  All I ask is 3000 gold for my fee."	unused.	
1910	I can teach expert skill in leather armor for a modest fee of 1000 gold if you already have a little skill (Rank 4).	unused.	
1911	My teaching will bring you up to master ranking in leather armor for 3000 gold.  My students must already be highly skilled (Rank 7) in the use of leather armor for my teaching to be worth anything to them.	unused.	
1912	"Using chain armor is a skill that must be developed like any other.  It's not like wearing a heavy coat, that's for sure!  I can train a little expertise into you for 1000 gold, provided you already have some skill (Rank 4) with chain armor."	unused.	
1913	"Chain armor is a weapon of war, there's no doubt of that, and I'm careful who I train in its use.  I require my students to be well practiced (Rank 7) before I'll train them.  My fee is 3000 gold."	unused.	
1914	An expert with plate armor can wear it with elegance and style.  I can instill this grace in my students if they already have a little skill (Rank 4) and 1000 gold for my fee.	unused.	
1915	"One who is a master in the use of plate mail wears it as easily as he wears his own clothes.  I'll only teach it to skilled people (Rank 7) for 3000 gold."	unused.	
1916	"The secrets of the fire are deep indeed, and can only be taught to one well initiated in the art (Rank 4).  I can bring your skill to expert level for 1000 gold."	unused.	
1917	"Long have I studied the mysteries of fire magic, and have finally come to master the skill.  I can teach the highly skilled (Rank 7) some of the things I've learned for 4000 gold."	unused.	
1918	"There are ways to draw magical energy from the air to power your spells longer and more efficiently.  If you're practiced in the art of air magic (Rank 4), I can teach you for 1000 gold."	unused.	
1919	"Air magic is the most subtle and quirky of the elemental magics you can study.  Because of the difficulty involved in learning this skill, I require a high proficiency (Rank 7).  My price is 4000 gold."	unused.	
1920	"Water is the element of movement and change.  Without skill in water magic, it takes forever to get from one side of the kingdom to the other.  I can improve your skill to expert status if you've already had a little practice (Rank 4).  My fee is 1000 gold."	unused.	
1921	A master of water magic with the Lloyd's Beacon spell can travel about the kingdom as much as he pleases.  I teach the skill to the most advanced students (Rank 7) for 4000 gold.	unused.	
1922	"If you want to become an expert in earth magic, you've come to the right place.  All you need is a modest level of skill (Rank 4) and 1000 gold for my fee."	unused.	
1923	"I can teach experts in earth magic to become masters of earth magic.  You must be very highly skilled (Rank 7) before I can help you, and my fee is 4000 gold."	unused.	
1924	Spirit magic is the magic you need to bring life from death.  I can train you in this important skill if you've already had a little practice (Rank 4) and are willing to pay me 1000 gold.	unused.	
1925	"The most advanced spells of spirit magic permit the practitioner to raise the dead back to life. The choice of bringing a soul back from its final resting place is a weighty one indeed, and I will only train those with sufficient skill (Rank 7) for 4000 gold."	unused.	
1926	"I can fine tune your skill in mind magic, bringing you up to the level of expert in this vital skill.  You must have had a little practice (Rank 4) and be willing to pay a fee of 1000 gold."	unused.	
1927	I will train any experts of mind magic sufficiently skilled (Rank 7) to master level for 4000 gold.	unused.	
1928	Body magic is the magic of healing and strengthening spells.  I will train anyone who is interested up to expert level for 1000 gold.  All you need is a little prior practice (Rank 4) for me to help you.	unused.	
1929	"The mysteries of the body can be yours all for the low, low price of 4000 gold.  Only highly skilled (Rank 7) experts can benefit from my teachings."	unused.	
1930	I can show you some of the secrets of light magic if you already have a little skill (Rank 4) to start with.  My fee is 1000 gold.	unused.	
1931	"A master of light magic is amongst the most powerful spell casters in the world.  I can improve nearly any expert to master status, but I do not do this lightly.  I require a high skill (Rank 7) and 5000 gold."	unused.	
1932	"Ah!  A student of darkness, no doubt!  If you want schooling in dark magic, I can help you if you've already practiced a little (Rank 4).  My fee is 1000 gold."	unused.	
1933	"I can bring experts of dark magic up to master, provided they meet my standards.  I only teach the genuinely dedicated– those of high skill (Rank 7).  I make no exceptions, and charge only 5000 gold in the interests of spreading darkness throughout the world."	unused.	
1934	"If you've spent any time adventuring at all, you'll know how important it is to know what your equipment does and how much it's worth.  I can improve your expertise with this skill if you already have a little identify skill to start with (Rank 4).  My price is 500 gold."	unused.	
1935	"You may already have found that while being an expert in identifying your treasure is good, it's not good enough.  I change  that.  I will teach experts to become masters for 2500 gold.  All you need is sufficient skill (Rank 7)."	unused.	
1936	"I will happily teach anyone with enough (Rank 4) merchant skill to become an expert merchant for 2000 gold.  It may seem expensive, but it's worth it!"	unused.	
1937	"Rare is the expert merchant, but rarer still is the master.  I can finish your merchant's education for 4000 gold, provided you have the skill (Rank 7) and the charm (Personality 50)."	unused.	
1938	"Any blacksmith shop can repair your equipment, but what do you do when something breaks while you're on the road?  I can make you an expert at mending things that are broken.  All you need is a little repair skill (Rank 4) to start with, and the gold to pay me.  My fee is but 500 gold."	unused.	
1939	"I teach experts in repair skill to be masters in the repair skill.  You must have a high skill (Rank 7) and 2500 gold for my fee."	unused.	
1940	"Ja, you want to learn body building, right?  Then you listen to me.  I teach you right for 500 gold, if you have a little meat on your body (Rank 4) to start with."	unused.	
1941	"If ever I've seen such pathetic weaklings as you, for the life of me I cannot remember!  Starving rats have more meat on their bones!  For a fee of 2500 gold, I'll beat you mercilessly until you become master body builders!  You must, however, already have spent time working out (Rank 7) and be tough enough to take my punishment (Endurance 50) before I'll have anything to do with you!"	unused.	
1942	"The way to achieve strength in the material realm is to achieve strength in the spiritual realm.  I can show you the way.  For a fee of 500 gold, I will help you attain expert skill in meditation if you have already had a little practice (Rank 4)."	unused.	
1943	"Who disturbs my meditation, as the pebble disturbs the stillness of the pond?  Ahh, seekers of the True Path.  If you have already traveled the path of meditation for some time (rank 7) necessary for my teaching, I can lead you to master status for 2500 gold.  "	unused.	
1944	The watchful can sometimes see a trap just before it goes off.  The lucky and skillful can sometimes avoid damage altogether.  I can teach you to recognize and avoid these traps provided you've already practiced a little (Rank 4) and have 500 gold for my fee.  	unused.	
1945	"The lucky person with a well trained eye can often stay out of harm's way when a trap goes off unexpectedly.  If you've already had a lot of practice (Rank 7), I'll make you a master of the perception skill.  My fee is but 2500 gold."	unused.	
1946	Having trouble getting people to talk to you?  That's your reputation speaking!  A little skill in diplomacy will lessen the impact of your past misdeeds.  I can bring you up to expert diplomat if you've already practiced your diplomacy a little (Rank 4) and have 500 gold for my fee.  	unused.	
1947	"Even a murderer is entitled to his day in court, and a good diplomat can turn a premeditated ambush into a case of desperate self defense.  I specialize in training expert diplomats into master diplomats.  You must have had plenty of practice (Rank 7) and enough fame (200) for my teaching to be of help.  My fee is 2500 gold."	unused.	
1948	"So much of the treasure of the land is in the hands of monsters and criminals, and they have been getting very clever with their traps.  You really need to know how to get past those traps and live to tell the tale.  I can help.  If you already have a little skill (Rank 4), I can train you to expert rank for just 500 gold.  "	unused.	
1949	"It's one thing to kill a rich and powerful monster, but it's something else entirely to get past the traps it puts on its treasure chests.  My disarm training is the best in the kingdom.  If you're already an expert and have the skill (Rank 7), I can train you to master rank for 2500 gold."	unused.	
1950	"You must learn to learn well if you're to enjoy a long and fruitful life.  If you already understand what I'm talking about (Rank 4), I can take you a lot farther.  My teachings cost 2000 gold."	unused.	
1951	"I am the teacher of teachers, the master of learning.  I can bring your understanding of the world around you to new heights.  I will only train those who have studied under my old students and have a thorough understanding of my precepts (Rank 7).  If you are smart enough (Intellect 50), I can bring you to master rank for 5000 gold.  "	unused.	
1952	You don't have enough gold!	unused.	
1953	"You don't meet the requirements, and cannot be taught until you do."	unused.	
1954	You must know the skill before you can become an expert in it!	unused.	
1955	You must first be an expert in the skill before you can become a master.	unused.	
1956	Not in your condition!	unused.	
1957	You are already an expert in this skill.	unused.	
1958	You are already a master in this skill.	unused.	
1959	"The best staff teacher in the land, Jasper Rice, lives up near Silver Cove.  You'll want to talk to him if you wish to continue your training with the staff."	unused.	
1960	"Guy Hampton in Blackshire taught me everything I know about the sword.  If you're looking to master the blade, he's the one to train under."	unused.	
1961	"I'm only a novice when compared to someone like Jules Miles.  He lives near Castle Stone, and he can teach anyone how to improve their dagger skills."	unused.	
1962	"Avinril Smythers mastered the axe before most of us were even born, but he doesn't train humans.  I'm sure if you could do something special for him, he might consider teaching a human how to really swing an axe.  He spends most of his time in the Haunt in the Mire of the Damned."	unused.	
1963	"The best spearman in Enroth, Burton Rutherford, lives in Darkmoor.  I'm not sure why he picks such a remote place to call his home.  Maybe he doesn't like being bothered with students?"	unused.	
1964	"As good as Lord Stromgard is with a bow, he won't accept students.  To master the bow, you need to talk to Desmond Weller in Kriegspire."	unused.	
1965	"If you want to master the mace, you need to speak to Errol Ostermann in Blackshire."	unused.	
1966	"Very few people even know that these weapons exist.  The only other person I've ever seen using an ancient weapon is Rexella, but she was last living in Paradise Valley– I'm not sure she's even there anymore."	unused.	
1967	No one can use a shield like Bronwyn Meck in Blackshire.  That's the person to talk to if you want to master the shield.	unused.	
1968	Arlen Sailor runs the best school in the art of wearing leather armor.  He normally holds his classes near Castle Stone.	unused.	
1969	"Darkmoor is the home of David Feather, the only person I know of that can teach you to master your skill in chain armor."	unused.	
1970	"Forrest Suthers, one of the head Paladins in Enroth, teaches how to master plate near Castle Temper."	unused.	
1971	To master the fire skill you need to speak to Jezebel in Mist.	unused.	
1972	Caao Salem can show you even more tricks with air magic in Mist.	unused.	
1973	To gain mastery of the water skill you need to train under Harper Collins in Mist.	unused.	
1974	Revee Botania can train you to master the earth skill in Silver Cove.	unused.	
1975	"Spirit can be mastered with the help of Bishop Inquisitorio.  He lives right behind Castle Ironfist, you can't miss him."	unused.	
1976	Thane Roper can train you to master the mind skill in Silver Cove.	unused.	
1977	"If you're looking to master body magic, you need to talk to Gilbert Hammer in Silver Cove."	unused.	
1978	"Light magic is a difficult skill to learn, and the Great Teacher, Ki Lo Nee, can only be found somewhere around Castle Alamos."	unused.	
1979	Su Lang Manchu was my teacher in dark magic.  He maintains a small house in a village in Paradise Valley.	unused.	
1980	Hans Gifford can show you even more neat tricks in identifying items in Free Haven.	unused.	
1981	"The smoothest talking merchant I've ever seen is Will Ottoman in Silver Cove.  If you're looking to improve your merchant skill, he's the man to see."	unused.	
1982	"If you think I'm good at repairing things, Ryan Treacle is the best around.  I'm sure he can be convinced to assist you in mastering the skill.  He lives up near Castle Stone the last I heard."	unused.	
1983	"Jason Traveler will coach you in the finest points of body-building.  He works in Free Haven, if you can handle his rigorous training."	unused.	
1984	"If mastering meditation is your goal, you'll need to see Norio Ariganaka in Mist."	unused.	
1985	Perception can be mastered with help from Macro Caligula in Darkmoor.	unused.	
1986	"Jacques Kohl is working with Lord Stromgard to develop experimental recipes.  If he has time, perhaps he can assist you as well in mastering the art of Alchemy."	unused.	
1987	"The greatest trap disarmer, Gabe Lester, is currently teaching his craft near Castle Stone.  He's the person to talk to if you want to learn all the best tricks."	unused.	
1988	John Tuck can teach you to master the learning skill.  I believe he's still living in Silver Cove.	unused.	
1989	"The King of the Dwarves, Snergle, usurped Rocklin for leadership of the dwarven clans.  Now Rocklin is in exile somewhere and Snergle is in charge.  Most dwarves don’t like Snergle and would like to see Rocklin back in power.  Unfortunately, Snergle has claimed both Rocklin’s caverns and the largest dwarven Iron Mine.  Snergle, fearing treachery near home, has removed me, the Dwarven Weaponmaster, from my position.  We need someone to get Snergle out of power by any means necessary.  I’d even consider training you humans how to use an axe like a true dwarf if you’ll help us."	unused.	
1990	"I need proof that Snergle has been defeated.  I’m sorry, but I just can’t take your word for it.  Bring back some personal item of his, like his axe maybe."	unused.	
1991	"Oh, glorious day!  With Snergle’s passing, we can now search for Rocklin to put him back in power.  Eternal thanks to you for this, and dwarves everywhere owe you a debt of gratitude."	unused.	
1992	"The Mayor here in Mist is considering allowing the Fraternal Order of Silver to police the town in their battle against evil.  I know the Silver Helm Persecution Squads have murdered innocents in their misguided crusade against ‘evil,’ but there are no living witnesses to their atrocities.  I need you to storm their outpost to the south of here to find proof so that I can convince the mayor to ban them from Mist."	unused.	
1993	Keep searching– the lives of the mayor and myself could very well be in your hands.  We can’t take action against them without proof.	unused.	
1994	"Just as I suspected!  I’m surprised the Mayor was number three on their enemies list.  I suppose he IS a tad incompetent, but he’s not a bad person.  Thanks again, please accept this gold and my gratitude as your reward."	unused.	
1995	I think I might just allow the Fraternal Order of Silver to police the areas around Mist.  Maybe they’d be able to hunt down all the evil people and leave this island a paradise.	unused.	
1996	"I can’t believe those Silver Helms wanted to kill me!  I’ve never done anything wrong in my life!  Well, nothing more wrong than any other mayor at least.  Thank you again for stopping them."	unused.	
1997	"Could you do the Temple of Baa a favor?  It appears that my brethren left the old temple to the northwest of here in a little too much of a hurry, and a candelabra necessary for some of our rituals was left behind.  None of the Baa priests want to go back because they’re afraid of whatever curse has been placed on the temple.  If you were to bring back the candelabra to me, however, I could reward you in their place."	unused.	
1998	"Did the curse frighten you away as well?  I can understand.  Baa is patient, however.  Should you work up the courage to find the candelabra, I’m still prepared to compensate you for it."	unused.	
1999	Excellent!  Baa be praised!  I see you were not frightened of the curse after all.  Here is your reward and thank you again for your assistance.	unused.	
2000	"Who would have thought that the evil I sought to fight all across Enroth would be found so close to my own home?  Gerrard Blackames was once my second in command.  Not long before he murdered me he began corresponding with the Temple of Baa, and they began to feed him targets for our Order.  I ended up being one of the targets, and Gerrard took control of the Order.  Now, the Silver Helms are as evil as the people they hunt.  I’m certain the Temple of Baa is responsible for the corruption of our Order.  At the same time, Gerrard’s brother, Marcus the Sorcerer, has been supplying the Silver Helms with high quality equipment.  The last I heard, Marcus was assisting someone in a forge on an island to the southeast."	unused.	
2001	"My niece, Melody, has been kidnapped from her home in Mist and locked in a Silver Helm outpost near there.  She’s one of the few people who know that I’ve been murdered.  I’m sure Gerrard has her locked up for that reason, but I believe he wants to force her into marriage to eliminate any opposition to his leadership of the Fraternal Order of Silver."	unused.	
2002	Thank you for saving my niece.  Behind this wall is a secret area I’ve kept hidden from even Gerrard all these years.  You are welcome to take whatever you want; I’d prefer you have this than Gerrard.	unused.	
2003	"Gerrard has an ankh inscribed with his name given to him by the priests of Baa.  I’m not sure exactly what the ankh is used for, but he may use it to identify himself as a friend of Baa."	unused.	
2004	"You want to defeat Snergle, do you?  Well, he knows how he stands among most dwarves.  He’s holed up in Rocklin’s old caverns surrounded by a horde of his loyal dwarves.  If anything were to happen in there, he’d just immediately lock himself in his private room and let his followers handle it.  You’ll need a key to get into his room; there’s no way you’ll bash down a high quality dwarven door.  I was a steward for Rocklin– I know that room well and I happen to still have a key to it hidden on me.  Fortunately for you, I’m in this cell because of Snergle, and there’s nothing I’d rather see than his reign put to a quick end.  Here’s the key– think of it as payment for letting me out of this cell."	unused.	
2005	"Thank you for releasing me.  The only thing keeping the Silver Helms from killing me was the fact I’m a priest.  Frankly, I’m surprised they would show me any mercy at all.  Listen, I’ve heard some strange sounds coming from around here… I think there might be a hidden passage near here.  In any event, I should probably be leaving now; I don’t want to stay in this cell any longer."	unused.	
2006	"The Dragoons that have been plaguing the roads around here recently stole a harp of mine from one of my caravans.  I’m not strong enough to get it back from them, but I’m willing to pay someone capable to do it for me.  Find the harp and return it, and I’ll reward you."	unused.	
2007	"My harp is still lost, so the reward is still available for it.  I know the Dragoons base their operations to the south of here near the coast.  Please bring back my harp."	unused.	
2008	"My gratitude!  My wife loves this harp; I’m so glad you were able to recover it!  Here, take this as a reward.  I’ve heard rumors that the Dragoons were working with the Shadow Guild.  If that’s the case, I’m sure the Mayor of New Sorpigal would love to see proof of it.  Thank you again for your assistance."	unused.	
2009	"Well, this IS a musical instrument, but it’s not a harp.  Let me explain the difference:  You brought back a flute.  A flute is a pipe with holes in it.  A harp has strings.  Does that help?  I’m sure they still have the harp and I will reward you well for its return."	unused.	
2010	"I have a few theories about the undead that I would very much like to prove.  What I really need is the remains of an undead creature, preferably a powerful one.  Actually, what I really need is the remains of the FIRST lich, Ethric the Mad.  I am a scholar, however, and don’t have the means to gain such a specimen.  I do have some money saved up, and I’d be willing to pay you well for Ethric’s remains."	unused.	
2011	"I am well aware of the difficulty of the task, believe me.  Take your time but at the least, do the job properly. "	unused.	
2012	"Good work! Now I can conclude my research.  If I can learn how the Ritual of Endless Night works, perhaps I can find a way to reverse the process.  Here is the reward I promised you. "	unused.	
2013	"Our town is periodically plagued by giant spiders.  I’m pretty sure that if the spider queen were killed, the rest of the spiders would go away.  Currently, I’m offering a reward to the person that can kill the spider queen."	unused.	
2014	"No one has returned with proof that they’ve killed the spider queen, so the reward is still available."	unused.	
2015	What a gruesome trophy!  This heart proves you’ve defeated the wicked spider queen.  Hopefully now the spiders won’t plague New Sorpigal anymore.  Here is the reward I promised.	unused.	
2016	"Cedric Druthers and his Celestial Order have taken over the Monolith, an ancient place sacred to druids.  Their dark rituals are corrupting the Monolith and they need to be stopped– whatever altar they use as the center of their ceremonies needs to be defaced.  Do this for us and we will compensate you for your time and services."	unused.	
2017	"I’m glad to see you again, but the Celestial Order is still in the Monolith."	unused.	
2018	Thank you for your help!  Please allow me to compensate you for your efforts.  We can rest more safely knowing that Cedric and his renegade druids are no longer polluting that sacred area. 	unused.	
2019	"I am a collector of rare and exotic creatures, and I make a living by selling some of these creatures as pets.  Currently, cobras are in great demand, and I don’t have many cobras left to sell.  Therefore, I’m willing to pay handsomely for any cobra eggs you might have.  Remember, if you find any cobra eggs, I’ll give you the best prices."	unused.	
2020	Excellent specimen!  I should be able to hatch this in no time and help my flagging business.  Here is my payment for this wonderful egg.  I’ll buy any more cobra eggs you have as long as they are in demand.	unused.	
2021	Removed Bat Guano Message	unused.	
2022	Removed Bat Guano Message	unused.	
2023	Removed Bat Guano Message	unused.	
2024	"Near here is a temple dedicated to the Order of the Fist.  I once belonged to that order, but recently they uncovered a powerful evil crystal.  They hope to use the crystal as a bargaining chip to be accepted into the Temple of Baa.  I don’t want to see the crystal fall into Baa’s hands– it must be destroyed.  Please infiltrate the temple and destroy the crystal."	unused.	
2025	"You must hurry and destroy the crystal before Baa claims it.  I’m not sure how long it will take, so time is of the essence."	unused.	
2026	Good work!  I’m glad you made it in time.  I don’t like to think about what Baa would have done with that crystal.  You have done all of Enroth a great service.	unused.	
2027	"My husband, Emmanuel, went to Star Island a few weeks ago with a few friends hoping to find some treasure.  I haven’t seen him since, and I’m worried about him.  I don’t dare go to the island; it’s rumored to be the home of medusas!  If you could find him and bring him home, I would be very grateful."	unused.	
2028	"No luck?  He must be in grave danger if you did not find him.  If you do happen to find him, please bring him back here.  I’ll be waiting for him."	unused.	
2029	"Oh, thank you for bringing Emmanuel back to me!  Nothing in this world means as much to me as him!  Please take this as a reward.  I know it’s not much, but you deserve it for bringing him back to me."	unused.	
2030	"Thank you for turning me back to normal. I’d love to stay and chat, but I really should be getting out of here."	unused.	
2031	"Thank you for turning me back to normal. I’d love to stay and chat, but I really should be getting out of here."	unused.	
2032	Could you help me get out of here?  I need to get back to my wife in Blackshire.	unused.	
2033	"An explorer friend of mine recently uncovered a powerful artifact, Mordred, in his travels.  He wanted to sell it to me, and shipped it here for me to decide if I wanted it.  Unfortunately, raiders attacked the caravan it was on and stole the artifact.  They were last seen headed to an area west of Castle Temper; I’m sure they must have some sort of base there.  If you bring back Mordred for me, I’ll give you a cut of what I’m paying my friend for it."	unused.	
2034	"Hello again.  No one has found Mordred yet, so our deal is still good.  I’ll give you part of the selling price for the artifact if you return it."	unused.	
2035	"So this is the legendary Mordred, eh?  Interesting, I was expecting something much grander.  I don’t think I want it, actually.  Why don’t you keep it, and I’ll deal with my friend on the cost."	unused.	
2036	"Members of the Shadow Guild have moved down south recently, and have been trying to exert their influence over merchants in the area.  I refused them access to our town, so they kidnapped Sharry Carnegie, an old healer loved by the townspeople, in an attempt to ‘convince’ me to let them operate here.  I can’t believe that their extortion has moved so far south, I thought I was safe from that down here.  Please rescue Sharry– I can offer you some money as a reward, and I’m sure the townsfolk would appreciate her return."	unused.	
2037	Have you found Sharry yet?  No?  I’m sure she’s wherever the Shadow Guild is hiding out.  Find them and you’ll find her.	unused.	
2038	Thank you so much for saving Sharry!  I can’t tell you how much this means to both New Sorpigal and myself.  You have our gratitude forever.	unused.	
2039	Interesting.  The Dragoons were hired by the Shadow Guild.  I’m certain Anthony Stone will want to hear about this.  I’ll present this letter when I see him next. Thank you for this.  I’m sure he will want to take action against the Shadow Guild now that we have some proof of their deeds.	unused.	
2040	Thank you for rescuing me from these horrible ruffians!  I’d like to go back home to New Sorpigal now.	unused.	
2041	"Oh dear, can you help me?  My daughter Angela is missing!  I think she may have wandered into the abandoned temple near town, and if she did she could be in terrible danger– who knows what kind of horrible things are lurking in that cursed place!  Please find her and bring her back to me."	unused.	
2042	You didn’t find poor Angela?  Something horrible must have happened to her!	unused.	
2043	"She’s alive!  Thank you so much for finding Angela!  If I weren’t so happy to see her, she’d be in a lot of trouble.  Please take this as a reward for all you’ve done."	unused.	
2044	I think I'm lost…<sob>…I want to go home!	unused.	
2045	"A good friend of mine, Sherell, went with a group of friends to the islands in Bootleg Bay to explore an old temple rumored to be there.  Her friends returned and said she was captured by cannibals on the island and taken to some ancient temple.  I’m sure she doesn’t have much time before they do something dreadful to her, please rescue her!"	unused.	
2046	"Oh dear!  You haven’t found her yet?  Surely she must have been sacrificed or eaten or something.  Please try to find her, or at least avenge her death."	unused.	
2047	Wonderful!  She’s not dead after all!  Thank you for all your trouble.  I hope you will accept this token of my gratitude.	unused.	
2048	"Hello!  Please, oh please, get me out of this temple.  I don’t want to die!"	unused.	
2049	"Our town is under a terrible curse, though most people don’t believe it.  Under a full moon, we all change into werewolves.  Although none of us are truly evil, we don’t really know what sort of horrible things we do as werewolves.  We can’t approach our lord, Acton Spindler about the problem because he doesn’t realize that we are the werewolves.  Please find a way to turn us back to normal!"	unused.	
2050	Is there no hope for us?  Please promise me you’ll keep searching for a way to reverse the curse and turn us back to normal people.	unused.	
2051	"Thank you!  We can now sleep at night without worrying about what kinds of foul acts we will commit as monsters!  It’s a tragedy that our lord was a werewolf himself; he’ll be sorely missed.  Please accept this for your help, and for believing in us."	unused.	
2052	"Blackshire has been plagued by werewolves lately.  These caves must be where the werewolves are coming from!  However, I will need help destroying them.  You’re welcome to any of the treasure we find.  I’m only concerned with destroying them once and for all!"	unused.	
2053	"You see, I am a werewolf and soon you will be one too!"	unused.	
2054	"I was a guest at Lord Spindler's manor when it was attacked by a band of werewolves that had tunneled in from the mountains.  I fought my way back down the tunnels they had created hoping to escape.  Eventually, they cornered me and I was killed at this very spot. "	unused.	
2055	"In my flight, I managed to hide the Pearl of Purity in these caverns.  The pearl will both protect you from the curse of the werewolves, and will also destroy the Altar of the Wolf if the pearl touches it.  That should free everyone afflicted by the curse these werewolves have caused.  The pearl is at the end of the cavern across from this one.  Please do me one favor, return the Pearl to Wilbur Humphrey.  He is the lord in charge of paladins and the pearl belongs with him."	unused.	
2056	"The werewolf leader possesses the Pearl of Putrescence, the opposite of my Pearl of Purity.  With this pearl, he has been able to cause the curse.  I was never able to kill him in my retreat.  I will be able to rest in peace knowing that he has been defeated."	unused.	
2057	"The werewolf leader possesses the Pearl of Putrescence, the opposite of my Pearl of Purity.  With this pearl, he has been able to cause the curse.  I was never able to kill him in my retreat.  I will be able to rest in peace knowing that he has been defeated."	unused.	
2058	Thank you for defeating the werewolf leader.  I wish that I had been strong enough to stop this from happening.  Please accept my thanks for allowing my spirit to move on.  I will take the pearl away so that it may no longer cause any harm to the people of Enroth.	unused.	
2059	"What’s this?  You have the Pearl of Purity?  I thought Balthasar– oh, he’s dead is he?  I’ll keep it for now, then, as per his last wishes.  Thank you on behalf of both him and me."		
2060	This month's bounty is on a %s.  Kill it and return before the end of the month to collect the %lu gold reward.		
2061	Congratulations on defeating the %s!  Here is the %lu gold reward.  Come back next month for a new bounty.		
2062	Someone has already claimed the bounty this month.  Come back next month for a new bounty.		
2063	Not used.		
2064	You no goblin!  You leave!  We take castle to watch over humans!  You no more kill us!		
2065	"Good work removing the goblins from this keep.  We have the situation mostly under control now, though your help is always appreciated."		
2066	"Hello again, my pupils!  I'm afraid there is nothing more I can teach you– your experiences must guide you from this point on.  I know nothing more than you do about the devils that destroyed Sweet Water, but I know who you need to ask.  The Oracle in Free Haven will know what to do to rid Enroth of the terrible devils.  Unfortunately, you will need the approval of the six High Council members, each of which represents one of the lords of Enroth.  You must do whatever necessary to speak to the Oracle in Free Haven and rid Enroth of the devils."		
2067	"As you may know, the last members of the Necromancers' Guild in Enroth fled to Castle Darkmoor after their defeat in the Succession War.  Who knows what foul magics they're concocting while we wait around.  I'm certain that the book containing the Ritual of Endless Night, known as the Book of Liches, has been moved into that castle.  If the book were to be destroyed, it would deal a severe blow to whatever evil plans they have.  I've tried a few times to get to the book, but the castle is too well defended.  If you are able to destroy the book, come back to me and I'll reward you personally."	old odd jobs	
2068	"There's no rush in destroying the book.  If you manage it, come back and talk to me.  I'm not sure it's even possible to get to the book and destroy it– there are far too many evil creatures in that castle."	old player house 1	
2069	"Incredible!  I didn't expect you'd be able to do it.  Now that the Book of Liches is gone, the Necromancers' Guild here in Enroth will slowly fade away.  This is all thanks to you!  Here, take this as a reward and accept my gratitude as well."	old player house 2	
2070	"I was once the court magician, long ago.  That all ended when Archibald… disrupted… things.  Archibald had acquired some skill as a sorcerer and had knowledge of spells beyond that taught to magicians today, and therefore didn’t require my services.  Since then, I’ve lived in this little shack, conducted my own research, and have grown old."		
2071	"I’ve discovered a way to reverse the effects of time and make myself young again.  This requires a complex magical ritual, which I’ve worked out.  The problem is that I need to place magical statuettes on various pedestals. The tiger statuette goes on the pedestal near Sweet Water, the bear statuette in Kriegspire, the eagle statuette in Dragonsand, the wolf statuette in the Mire of the Damned, and the dragon statuette in Bootleg Bay.  The distances are too far for me to travel in my old age, and in the meantime I need to prepare the ritual itself.  There is no way I can do all of this on my own; I need your help.  The statuettes are in the chest outside my house.  Place them on the pedestals and return to me.  Even if the ritual is a failure, I'll pay you for your efforts."		
2072	"I was one of the mages studying at Kriegspire when the creatures there went completely out of control.  In my escape from the castle, I left a valuable item behind, a jeweled egg.  This egg is a family heirloom that goes back in my family as far as the Silence.  I have tried a few times to get it back, but the creatures there are too powerful for me.  I’d gladly trade a generous sum of money to get my egg back."		
2073	"Kriegspire is the castle inside the volcano.  We mages were forced to raise the earth around the castle to try and prevent the creatures from overrunning the surrounding towns.  Now they’re contained inside, and that’s where the egg is."		
2074	Thank you for returning this egg to me; it’s the most precious thing I have.		
2075	"I am the Lord of Fire, an immortal earth spirit.  My power is drawn from below the earth.  The channels that I use have been blocked by doors warded with powerful magic in the north.  I need you to unward the doors so that I may awaken again.  Though the enchantments on them are powerful, amber will break the ward on the doors."		
2076	"If you get lost in the caverns, you may find assistance from my servants.  If you have a piece of amber, they will assume you are under my care and will teleport you back to me if you talk to them.  If you do not have any amber, they will drain with some of your life force as payment for teleporting you back up here.  Don’t worry, they rarely kill anyone."		
2077	"The doors became warded when a strange creature came to reside here.  I am not familiar with this type of being, and I’ve seen many types in my long time here in Enroth.  I do not know why it chose this place as its home, or why there is only one, but I would like to see it destroyed for the trouble it has caused me. "		
2078	"As patient as I am, I would like to see the channels I use to sustain me opened again.  Please do not fail."		
2079	Thank you for your assistance.  I am grateful to you for returning my source of sustenance to me.  I need to recharge what little power I have left now that I am able to again.		
2080	"Thank you again for assisting me, but right now I'm quite busy preparing everything I need to complete the ritual."		
2081	"So, Sir John was murdered and the Silver Helms were bought off by the Temple of Baa?  That explains a great deal.  Good work on bringing this to me, but you’ll need to collect your reward from Anthony Stone."		
2082	"I should have known Baa was behind this, they seem to be behind everything.  Thank you for bringing this to me.  It answers the questions I had about the Fraternal Order of Silver."		
2083	"So Baa was behind the corruption of the Silver Helms and the murder of Sir John Silver?  What a tragedy for Sir John, rest his soul.  <blink> Loretta told you to collect the reward from me?  Greedy witch.  Here, your services should not go unrewarded."		
2084	"Good work!  Have you ever thought about assisting me full-time?  I could certainly use reliable help.  I've managed to collect a variety of trinkets over the years, so please help yourself to a few of these in payment for your services.  I need to clean up a few things here, but I think I'll head back to Castle Ironfist in a bit and see if there's an opening for a court magician."		
2085	"Thanks!  I can't wait to take this to Abdul's Desert Resort and see what I get!  Oh, here's the money I owe you."		
2086	My favorite wine is the stuff they give you for winning at the circus.  I'll pay 300 gold for any keg of wine from the circus that you can bring me.		
2087	"My favorite!  Thanks for the wine!  Here's 300 gold, it's well worth the price."		
2088	"I have an incredible teeth collection, but I'm always looking for more.  If you find a tooth I don't have in my collection, I'll pay you 500 gold for it."		
2089	"I don't believe I have a tooth like this one yet, here's 500 gold."		
2090	"I have been to the circus three times, and I can't win anything.  All I really want are the nifty four leaf clovers they use as prizes there.  I'll pay 25 gold for any four leaf clover you bring me."		
2091	"I'm so tired of the Shadow Guild, but I don't have any substantial proof of their activities.  I'd love to have something I could show to Anthony Stone proving the Shadow Guild is up to no good down here."		
2092	"One of the few remaining Paladin artifacts left is the Pearl of Purity.  Balthasar was in possession of the pearl the last I heard.  He was visiting Lord Spindler in Blackshire, but I haven't heard anything from him in months."		
2093	I will only speak to the Chosen Ones; those that bring the symbol of fire.	Should never see this	
2094	"Recently, the Fraternal Order of Silver has been disrupting my business and my caravans.  I'm not sure why Sir John feels it necessary, but I'd like this to stop.  If you could convince him to leave me alone, I'm sure I could give you a portion of the money you would be saving me."		
2095	"The Fraternal Order of Silver has begun more direct attacks on my legitimate, underworld associates.  I would appreciate it greatly if you could talk to Sir John and learn why he feels these actions are necessary."		
2096	Hurray!  This is much easier and much less embarrasing than going to the circus and losing!  Here's 25 gold!		
2097	"I've heard it's possible to find large chunks of amber in a series of caves north of Castle Ironfist.  I never have the time to leave Free Haven, but I'd love to get my hands on some of that amber.  I'll pay 500 gold for any piece of amber."		
2098	"This will do nicely!  Thank you for the amber, here is the 500 gold I promised you."		
2099	I have almost prepared the entire ritual– all that is left is to place the statuettes.		
2100	"Good work!  I have my youth again, thanks to you– have you ever thought about assisting me full-time?  I could certainly use reliable help.  I've managed to collect a variety of trinkets over the years, so please help yourself to a few of these in the chest outside as payment for your services.  I need to clean up a few things here, but I think I'll head back to Castle Ironfist and see if there's an opening for a court magician."		
2101	Nothing here!		
2102	Path of Light	Enroth dark arts	
2103	Path of Dark	Enroth dark arts	
2104	Are you sure, you want to change your path? Dark spells will be vanished from your spellbook and dark magic will be erased from your mind. (Yes/No)	Enroth dark arts	
2105	Are you sure, you want to change your path? Light spells will be vanished from your spellbook and light magic will be erased from your mind. (Yes/No)	Enroth dark arts	
2106	It is never late to turn back to light, child. Choose light side.	Enroth dark arts	
2107	Darkness wait and it's patience is eternal. Choose dark side.	Enroth dark arts	
2108	yes	Enroth dark arts	
2109	Either you've already choosen your path, or you are not ready to do it.	Enroth dark arts	
2110	The cauldron is empty		
2111	+1 Fire resistance permanent		
2112	+1 Cold resistance permanent		
2113	+1 Electric resistance permanent		
2114	+1 Poison resistance permanent		
2115	+1 Magic resistance permanent		
2116	The cook pot is empty		
2117	Disease!		
2118	Search Failed!		
2119	You need to give The Letter to Regent Wilbur Humphrey in Ironfist Castle.	Seer Hint 1	
2120	I would advise that you perform the promotion quests for the six lords of Enroth until you have advanced a little further.	Seer Hint 2	
2121	Empty sack		
2122	"You must satisfy the six High Council members in Free Haven to visit the Oracle.  Each lord will request a task of you to earn their favor.  Perform each of these tasks and then talk to the Council member of that Lord to gain their approval.  Once all the members of the High Council give their permission, you will be allowed to visit the Oracle."	Seer Hint 3	
2123	Empty bag		
2124	It appears that Slicker Silvertongue is a traitor on the Council.  You will need proof to convince Regent Humphrey and have Slicker removed from the Council.  Go to the Superior Temple of Baa in Kriegspire and return with proof associating Slicker with the Temple of Baa.	Seer Hint 4	
2125	"The Oracle has been asleep since Archibald performed his mischief on it.  You will need the four memory crystals to revive the Oracle.  They can be found on Hermit's Isle, in Castle Alamos, in Castle Kriegspire, and in Castle Darkmoor."	Seer Hint 5	
2126	"To gain access to the Control Center, you will need the Control Cube located in the Temple of VARN in Dragonsand.  Bring the Cube back to the Oracle to gain admittance into the Control Center.  The Kreegan reactor is immune to all attacks.  Only the ancient weapons from the Control Center will harm the reactor.  Make sure you have these weapons and the skill to use them."	Seer Hint 6	
2127	You should probably show The Letter to Andover Potbello in New Sorpigal.	Seer Hint 7	
2128	Nothing here		
2129	"Before you destroy the reactor, you will need a spell capable of containing the resulting explosions.  You must free Archibald from his stone prison.  Talk to Nicolai and bring him the Third Eye– he will allow you to use Tanir's Bell to turn Archibald back to normal.  From there, you should be able to convince Archibald to give you the knowledge you need."	Seer Hint 8	
2130	"Now you must destroy the Kreegan Hive.  Destroy the reactor, defeat their queen, and make sure to escape with the Ritual of the Void and you will succeed in your task."	Seer Hint 9	
2131	You have no more need of my advice.	Seer Hint 10	
2132	"Welcome to my Desert Resort!  You'll notice we don't have the riff-raff associated with the towns and villages of the lands here.  Take a moment to relax and enjoy the serenity of the desert, my friends.  If you're interested, we have a few traders here that will trade rare items for weapons and armor– it may be worth your while to check them out."		
2133	"It seems rumors abound about my little Resort.  Alas, the Fountain of Youth everyone seems to be talking about is not here, it's a few days journey to the west."		
2134	Hello!  I've got great suits of armor that I'll trade for golden pyramids or kegs of wine.		
2135	Empty bucket		
2136	I'll trade high quality weapons for golden pyramids or kegs of wine.		
2137	I have a wide variety of magical accessories I'll gladly trade for golden pyramids or kegs of wine.		
2138	"Great to do business with you, here's your armor!"		
2139	Useless Crystal		
2140	"I'm afraid you don't have a golden pyramid, so I can't make a deal with you."		
2141	You don't have a keg of wine to trade!		
2142	"Great to do business with you, here's your weapon!"		
2143	"Great to do business with you, here's your accessory!"		
2144	"I'm collecting used magic lamps, but I don't have any money.  I'll trade you some of these pretty stones for the lamps, though."		
2145	Thanks for the lamp!  Here are your stones.		
2146	High Detail is only available with 32MB of RAM or greater.		
2147	Not Used		
2148			
2149	This will sound odd, but bear with me, heroes. The name’s Verdant, and I am a time traveler. Something rather dire has occurred and I need your help. Actually, the world needs your help. I am but a messenger… and the probable cause of all the trouble, but that’s really not what’s important here. 
What is important is that there is this clandestine scholar consortium. It has no name for it should not be spoken of, and hence has no need for one. We are a group of mages who researched the intricacies of time travel for the purpose of documenting the history of our world. Pure, untainted, unbiased. Something humans entangled in their affairs and fettered by political agendas are obviously incapable of doing. As the saying goes, ‘Winners write history’. And hence, we’ve mastered the art of time travel to witness the history and document it objectively, straighten out the mangled facts, uncover the truth buried beneath convenient lies.
It’s been working out great, our archives grow with each excursion, but this time, a little something went… a little wrong.	The Important Matter	Verdant
2150	See, personally, I always found it disappointing how all the chronicles detail the lives of kings, queens, and other politicians. How they say, ‘and Queen Whatever knighted her heroes’. I don’t want to read about that, I want to read about the heroes. I want to know about mires they’ve trudged through, about the miles they’ve traversed, about the riches they hauled, and the little folk they’ve saved. 
So I’ve taken it upon myself to write a chronicle that has all of it and more. I’ve chosen three groups of heroes whose deeds saved countless lives, and I’ve attuned my magic to visit them all at the very beginnings of their journeys. I meant to get to know them, understand where they come from, see the world through their eyes, breathe in the scent of their sweat and blood. Yes, literally, don’t be squeamish, it won’t do you much good in your line of work...	A Little Something	Verdant
2151	...Anyway, something went wrong with the ritual, some malfunction or other and, uh, well. I seem to have erased a group of heroes from existence. Or, alternatively, I’ve booted them to another existence, century, or era. Fingers crossed for the booting. Then, well, I’ve tried to fix it and the same thing kind of sort of happened to the second hero group. Before you ask – yes, you’re the third. No, you’re not getting booted or existentially eradicated. *Verdant glances over to a book she’s holding* Probably. As long as the same can be said for all of your organs, we should be good.	A Little Something 2	Verdant
2152	What I need you to do is really rather simple in concept. Basically, I know you’re capable of saving the world, so I will need you to do it a few more times. Just three times total, don’t worry! With the other two groups of heroes currently or permanently indisposed, you’ve got to pick up the slack or things will get really messed up. I mean, really: the history will rewrite itself, and, given the scope of changes and the amount of lives affected, who knows. The history might just say ‘Enough is enough!’ and explode everything. A wild, yet educated, guess. So you see the problem.
Oh, you didn’t know you were heroes? Right, right, I tend to forget how stable-timed people operate and think. Of course. Well, yes, welcome to the hero-dom. You can try to escape your path, but in all honesty, it will be much easier to just get the world saving done.
Personally, I think I actually love this idea. It may sound cold, but I can’t help it, heroes are my weakness. And three time world-savers? I’m about to melt on the spot. Mrrrau! A silver lining, you may call it, yeah?	Your Task	Verdant
2153	To travel through time and fall onto the paths that were meant to be traversed by the other heroes, you will need to use a Dimension Doors scattered across most magic-filled lands. Don’t worry, it’s mostly safe. 
There are one in Murmurwoods, Dragonsand and Evenmorn Island if I recall, maybe somewhere else too. Find one of these spots and if, how you call it? If you have mastered Town Portal spell, just use it. Share your surprise after. Also you could find Dimension Door scrolls amongst junk in some shops, it will work too.
You don’t need to hurry too much, it takes time a good while to restructure itself and acknowledge the changes in its fabric, but try to get it all done before you get old, aye?	Time Travel Guide	Verdant
2154	This one's lovely if you like colors. I mean, fiery red, sky blue, earthly brown, sea emerald. Haha. Yeah, well, the elements are everywhere here, quite in your face. They... overflowed, you could say. It's kind of a crisis really. Either way, you would take the role of caravan guards, but worry not - caravan's done riding, no boring trips. You can rob what's left, sell it to the adorable lizards inhabiting the isle, and then get on with more interesting heroics. Please do. Mmmm... heroics. Yesss. Oh, and they even have unicorns there! Sadly, you may need to kill them. They're a little bit on the vicious side. Rrrawr.	Jadame	Verdant
2155	Oh this one is special. You get to be LORDS. Hear me? LORDS. That sounds so distinguished, don't you want to be LORDS? Ha. But to get that swell title, you must first win a scavenger hunt on a little isle. It's no biggie, there's hardly any competition. I mean it - don't think to wait it out and let someone else win to be free from that little prison. It's not going to happen. Win it and then you're home - ruling a small patch of land sitting right between two warring kingdoms who each want a piece of said land. Well, the whole of it, really. Fun. But hey, you get to call yourself LORDS. Who cares about the rest?	Antagarich	Verdant
2156	This one's simple. You're a bunch of happy kids saved by a nice warlock fellow, spent your lives training, now all grown up and ready to roll. No need for a heavy roleplay, just don't be jerks. Go around, slap some goblins, squash a spider or two, poke a devil. Umm... I mean, an apprentice wizard, yes. No devils anywhere, forget the devils. I don't think I should be telling you things about your future. Well, their future. But also your future now. You know what I mean. From zero to hero, take your time, enjoy the views... once you find a vantage point free of death. Which is not going to be easy. This land is swarming with killey things. Seriously. I love it.	Enroth	Verdant
2157	Good news: the whole hero-extinction mess wasn’t just my fault. Bad news: the whole hero-extinction mess wasn’t just my fault. In other news: there’s a Runaway Chaos that’s causing trouble and it must be caught and contained! More literally than one might like.
I won’t get into the technical details, because the more I’d say, the less you’d understand – it’s perfectly normal, not a slight against your wits in the slightest. But in the simplest terms, imagine there’s something we’ll call a Chaos Matter, it’s the force of Chaos in the universe. Entropy and all that. And from this matter, a bit… fell off, let’s say, and began causing unpredictable trouble. And though you may think – but that’s what chaos ought to be! Chaotic! Let me treat you with a slogan – In every Chaos there is Order, in every Order there is Chaos. 
The Runaway Chaos is the aforementioned bit. It attached to my spells and made them backfire horribly, as you well know. You have to go to the Controlled Breach, capture the Runaway Chaos, and return it to the uh… Uneasy Origin Matter. Yes, I made that name up, but no sane person can memorize the one we use to describe it in the consortium without hearing it a hundred times over.	Something terrible	Verdant
2158	The Controlled Breach is a place the consortium has created where it’s possible to see and interact with the Runaway Chaos, and through which the Uneasy Origin Matter can be reached. It’s an artificial realm-esque area where matters *Verdant snickers* can be safely handled without jeopardizing any real world places. 
Ruins of Escaton's Crystal should be enough magic-filled to allow our old friend - town portal spell - teleport you there.
Once there, all you need to do is find the Runaway Chaos and return it to the Uneasy Origin Matter. What can you expect on the way? Aye, this even I cannot tell you. Since it’s a result of a time anomaly, we have obviously never seen it before. 
What will happen to you after you go in and leave?
Well, um. Let’s not overthink things. I’m sure it’s going to be fun, though!	The Controlled Breach	Verdant
2159	I have to figure out the exact cause of this whole timeline kerfuffle. There might be some more anomalies that I’ve missed. You’ve helped me a bunch already, but would you mind terribly if I called on you again at some point? I mean, you’re face-deep in this mess as it is and it’s not like you’re getting out of it anytime *Verdant snickers* soon. Might as well keep helping me, right?	Interlude	Verdant
2160	Nifty gizmo, isn’t it? This gem will let us speak wherever and whenever. But, eh, as always there’s a but. The thing is quite unstable and will need to recharge after each contact we make. To put it simply, it absorbs energy from the air around it. You can either give it a few days or jump into the time-travel door for an instant recharge. Ever wondered why you come out of those with your hair standing straight in all directions? Now you know. Energy. Tons of it.
	Connector gem	Verdant
2161	(Charged connector stone will heal you up once per day.)	Connector gem improved	Verdant
2162	I’m glad you asked, this whole conundrum is making it rather difficult for me to sleep. I could pretend it’s the worry over the poor goobers I’ve punted out of our realm, existence, time, or whatnot that’s keeping me awake, but I’ve always been a big fan of truth telling. Lies are so much hassle to keep track of, aren’t they?
Basically, I don’t much care about the scrubs I’ve sent away, but I do care an awful lot about the heroes snoozing within them. And I want those heroes back, and I want to put them in another time of trouble to witness their glory and maybe save a life or two while we’re at it. Hence I’ve been hard at work locating the two missing groups. But to make it happen in a reasonable amount of time, I will need your help.	Intro1	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2163	You could ask, what value does time hold to a time traveler? And hasn’t the other heroes’ suffering has already begun – or, in fact, ended centuries ago, should they have found themselves in another period? And to that I’ll tell you: stop over thinking things. Trying to make sense of it all will just give you a headache. A rookie mistake of anyone dealing with paradox-prone situations.
Look at it this way – we’re living in dangerous times. As all times are, really, so it’s not like we can hide elsewhen. *Verdant shrugs.* And so it’s not out of the realm of possibility that a dragon will eat me tomorrow, or the day after, and cut my work time short. It would be deeply troubling and unfortunate given that I’m also involved in other matters of great importance, but the point is – it could happen. I don’t know what awaits me in this timeline, provided I stay here, since I’ve never been here and now before… I think. Oh gods, now I’m doing it. Stop it, woman! *Verdant slaps her left ear as if she wanted the paradox musings to fall out of the right one.*
Anyway, what I need you to do is help me build a Telelocator. Doing that will increase the chance of my finishing the task before I become a dragon snack.”	Intro2	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2164	There’s two things to know here.
One: I cannot return the lost heroes to their own respective timelines as I’ve already attuned you to their paths. We’ll have to move them somewhen else or the universe could get really huffy and we would really not want that. If we plop them in some random, nicely troubled time and place they will start their own new paths, and all will be good.

Two: to commence said plopping, we must first locate the poor goobers. That can be accomplished by building a device we call the Telelocator. That’s where you come in.
First things first, we need a Rod. Not just any rod, but a special rod of an infused metal. There’s a clan of Duergars dwelling near Alvar who dabble with this kind of ore. I’m sure they’ll have a rod somewhere around their complex, what half-competent blacksmith wouldn’t have one? I’d suggest to simply purchase it, but I’ve heard them Duergars are rather grumpy. And by grumpy I mean they would rather lodge an axe in your head than barter.
	InfusedRod	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2165	How’s the Rod expedition going? No, I cannot use a wooden stick instead, stop asking or I’ll get one and use it for another purpose next time you do. Ass-whooping in the purpose, in case there was any doubt.	InRodGiven	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2166	Brilliant. This is a wonderful rod. Have you run your hand over it? Try it! Bzzt. Bzzt! Fun, isn’t it? Next we’ll need a Guiding Gem.	InRodDone	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2167	Acquire an Infused Metal Rod for Verdant to serve as a base of the Telelocator. She said Duergars of Alvar may own a few.	InRodQuest	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2168	There is no such thing as a Guiding Gem, obviously, we have to make one. I will need a large round crystal for this. LARGE. ROUND. And I mean, *SERIOUSLY ROUND*. None of that shady vendor garbage. If the stream gets skewed due to an uneven orb shape I might get a nosebleed of the century when I use the Telelocator. I’ve already sprayed the halls for the century two centuries back, and also for the one six from now, and I’m definitely not into repeating that experience.
So yes, round please. I’ve asked around and been told that the dwarves of the Stone City might have something like that stashed away. They sure love their crystals and when it comes to classy stone cutting they have no equals.
Is it possible you will have to steal it? Please, we are living in a world of wonders. Dragons, Unicorns, talking trees, might and magic. Of course it’s possible, what sort of a dumb question is that?	GuidingGem	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2169	The dwarves are generally a very friendly folk. If they get mad at you, just bolt and give them a moment to cool off while firmly out of their sight. Or learn to be sneaky and don’t get caught in the first place. I’d advise the latter, but I won’t be surprised if you just go and slaughter everyone instead. You wouldn’t believe the things some world-saving heroes liked to do. *Verdant rolls her eyes, but a corner of her lips twitches in a way that makes you wonder if she doesn’t appreciate an occasional anti-hero spicing up her chronicles.*	GuGemGiven	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2170	Great, this is beautiful. So smooth… I could just sit and pet it for hours. Which I might well do until you return with the Wisp Wrappings, as there’s little progress to be made meanwhile.	GuGemDone	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2171	Acquire a Large Seriously Round Crystal for Verdant’s Telelocator. One could possibly be found in the Stone City located in Barrow Downs.	GuGemQuest	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2172	Good, good, we almost have our thing pieced together. To attach the gem to the rod I need one more thing – Wisp Wrappings. It’s basically bandages, but infused with a strong spiritual essence. That can only happen if they touched the “flesh” of an undead and have spent some time being filled with a strong spiritual presence.
I know just the place to look for such a thing. Near the Castle Ironfist you will find a place that used to belong to a wizard named Corlagon. That hole is just swarming with all sorts of undead. If a piece of cloth ever fell off one of them, it will be perfect. Those ghosts there seem to be very… bed-sheety. So I wouldn’t be at all surprised if the entire area was littered with bits that tore off them while they flew around the corridors.
What? You don’t know what bed sheets are? You poor things! Grab yourself a ghost carcass in the Estate then and line your bed with it next time. You’ll thank me!	WhispWrappings	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2173	Don’t tell me not one of those ghosts has ever ran into a sharp nail sticking out of the wall or another?	WhWraGiven	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2174	Lovely, that’s exactly what I needed. Mmm… and it smells delicious too. If you can look past the odor of death and rotting meat. Here try it, look for that subtle note in the background. Oh, come on! Why does no one ever want to share the simple pleasures with me? *Verdant pouts* Fine, business then. We need to enchant the rod and the gem now.	WhWraDone	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2175	Acquire Wisp Wrappings for Verdant’s Telelocator. She suggested searching for some in the Corlagon’s Estate near Castle Ironfist.	WhWraQuest	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2176	Infusing the Guiding Gem might turn out to be an affair more expensive than dangerous. I’d love to reimburse you but, alas, I don’t have any currency valid in this here time period. In the place I’ve last visited with an intention to buy things they stopped trading in gold. *Verdant shows you a bunch of useless paper scraps* You could get a horse for this. Fun, no?
What I need right now are gems – a great variety of gems. Bring me one of %s. I need to powder them and experiment to find the right dust combination that will properly attune the Guiding Gem to the realms.	EnchantTheGem	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2177	Acquire %s for Verdant’s Telelocator. They can be found all over the world and bought from various merchants.	EnGemQuest	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2178	I really hope you like collecting things. Do not tell me otherwise, let me stay blissfully happy for you!	EnGemGiven	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2179	Well, this is %s, I still need %s.	EnGemBringOne	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2180	Oh, aren’t these just gorgeous? It’s almost a shame to turn them to dust… I wonder if there could be another way---OKAY, FINE I’LL DO IT! No need for these death stares, what are you, gorgons? *Verdant mumbles something under her breath.*	EnGemDone	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2181	The rod can be enchanted with just a little bit of leg work. You will need to drop by the four Elemental Planes, but before you panic – don’t. What I need can be found near the very entrance of each of them.
All you need to do is go inside, boink the frame with a sword or whatever you have at hand, and pick up what falls off. These metal structures are surprisingly soft, it’s the rampaging elemental middle that’s holding it all together and actually shaping the thing. Who’d have guessed, huh? You may even just find some chippings lying around to save you the hassle. Seriously, an angry cat could probably bite one off.
Either way, bring me four of the chippings and I’ll melt them into the rod to give it the much needed power.	EnchantTheRod	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2182	Acquire Fire Portal Chipping, Water Portal Chipping, Earth Portal Chipping, and Air Portal Chipping for Verdant’s Telelocator. They can be found inside the Elemental Planes near the entrance portal.	EnRodQuest	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2183	You can try to bite the frames if you want, too. If a cat can do it so can you. But remember – it must be the frame inside the realm. The outer ones are actually quite tough and would definitely chip your teeth instead. Don’t ask me why that’s so, I didn’t make them.	EnRodGiven	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2184	You've acquired %s Chipping!	EnRodEnchant	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2185	Okay, give me these and let’s see how that works out.	EnRodDone	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2186	Wonderful, gorgeous, beautiful. Now that we have this puppy in one piece and magical enough, on top of being attuned to the realms, we need to do one more thing before I activate it. Well, one-ish. We need to attune it to the heroic spirits, traits found in heroes, kindred souls of valiance, call it however you want. Long story short, I need you to hold it and let it become drunk with your awesomeness. The problematic part may be, you need to actually be awesome for the device to want to drink from you.
Luckily, it doesn’t need to feed on just one person. No, it won’t literally suck the thing out of you! Seriously? I’m being metaphorical. Why would I want to break you… *Verdant sighs and shakes her head.* Telelocator needs to feel Might, Endurance, Accuracy, Intellect, Personality, and Luck. If you feel strong at one of them, come forth, take it, and close your eyes. Tell it, in your mind, about your valor. If it deems you worthy and absorbs your essence – NOT by taking it away, I SWEAR – the Guiding Gem will glow.	Attunement	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2187	 [insufficient] Harder! Try to squeeze it maybe?	NotAttuneMight	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2188	*The Telelocator brightens up. Verdant whispers something under her breath with her eyes following every twitch of your muscles.*	AttuneMight	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2189	 [insufficient] Maybe if you first do a few rounds up and down the stairs?	NotAttuneEndurance	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2190	*The Telelocator brightens up.* I wish I could ‘attune’ myself to you too. I’m out of breath after a ten seconds run. Heck, I’m out of breath just talking about it. *Verdant pants.*	AttuneEndurance	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2191	 [insufficient] Try squinting. More. More! Close your eyes! Aim with your mind alone! Eh. Still nothing.	NotAttuneAccuracy	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2192	*The Telelocator brightens up.* Can you hunt me a deer for dinner? I’ve been eating local shrooms for too many days already. Bleh.	AttuneAccuracy	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2193	 [insufficient] Did it ask you a riddle or something? If so, do tell, I’m curious if I’d get it right.	NotAttuneIntellect	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2194	*The Telelocator brightens up.* Sweet. You know, we should meet for a round of Ugili Duli once. It’s a fascinating game, but nobody around seems to even get the rules. Much less pose a challenge!	AttuneIntellect	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2195	 [insufficient] Don’t worry, I personally think you’re very, very charming and… personable. Mrrr…	NotAttunePersonality	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2196	*The Telelocator brightens up.* Then the gizmo and I are in agreement.	AttunePersonality	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2197	 [insufficient] How often do you step in poop? I find that’s a good measure of how badly the world hates you. Once you get to less than twice a day give it another go.	NotAttuneLuck	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2198	*The Telelocator brightens up.* It’s our lucky day! The fortune smiles on us today! Hm. I had more cliches ready for this one, but they fled my mind. I guess you really *are* lucky.	AttuneLuck	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2199	Pass the test Might (70) to attune the Telelocator.
Pass the test Endurance (70) to attune the Telelocator.
Pass the test Accuracy (70) to attune the Telelocator.
Pass the test Intellect (70) to attune the Telelocator.
Pass the test Personality (70) to attune the Telelocator.
Pass the test Luck (70) to attune the Telelocator	AttuneQuest	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2200	We’re almost there. I can nearly hear the desperate cries for help from our punted friends! Provided they still actually exist somewhere and haven’t been straight out erased from everywhere… let’s stick to nearly hearing their cries, aye?
Now this may be a toughie. To activate the Telelocator I will need a lot of power. Not a fancy power core kind of power, but still. Ten Philosopher Stones is what we’re looking for here. Once you bring them to me, we can finally use the thing! I’m getting excited.	ActivateTheTele	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2201	May I suggest an alchemy lab heist? Desperate times desperate measures and all that.	AcTelGiven	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2202	Well, %s more stones left.	AcTelLeft	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2203	Brilliant. No more talk. Let’s go.	AcTelDone	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2204	Acquire 10 Philosopher Stones to activate the Telelocator.	AcTelQuest	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2205	*Verdant performs quite a lengthy ritual to activate the Telelocator, and just when you begin to worry that it may not work after all this work, the device beams up and the sorceress opens her eyes wide. She’s looking straight at you, but her gaze is absent, as she’s not seeing you, but things from realms, or times, far away or long time away from here and now. Then, she speaks, strangely mechanically.”
Targets found. Realms: Attuned. Time: Attuned.
World: Ashan. Year: 1923
Targets’ Status: Incapacitated and confused. Targets’ predicted remaining lifespan: Eleven thousand and sixty six days.
Realms: Detached. Time: Detached.
*Verdant opens her eyes with a gasp.*
Aw, crap.	SG_Activate	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2206	Yes, we can do it. I don’t know how much you’ve heard, but I know exactly how to bring the lost heroes back into our world and place them in a more fair predicament. I will need some gruesome stuff for that. It’s all about sacrifice and suffering now, you know. Also, do make haste as always, but don’t worry about time too much. Telelocator has detached both timelines so as long as I’m alive and the universe doesn’t backflip, the heroes can be saved.
I will need you to bring me 5 Will’o’Wisp Hearts, 5 Wolf Eyes, 3 Phoenix Feathers, a vial of Troll Blood, a vial of Gog Blood, 2 Dragon’s Eyes, and a Focal Ring.
Then I will… Let’s not think or talk about it right now. Go, let’s save those Goobers so they can become the heroes we all know they can be!	SG_SaveTheGoobers	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2207	That’s not enough murder. Get on it, aye? Trust me, I’m getting the short end of the stick here…	SG_Given	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2208	This is %s, fine. 	SG_Left	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2209	Need %s more. 	SG_LeftAdd1	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2210	And also, %s 	SG_LeftAdd2	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2211	I have to say, I was kind of sort of hoping you might not be back… Eech! Yes, I do have to mash it all together and drink it. In theory, so do you each time you drink this or that potion, but trust me, it’s a whole different story when you just straight out… mash it… no boiling… no magic. *Verdant closes her eyes and inhales sharply.* I feel sick and filthy already. Can you mix it for me at least? Leave the feather shafts out…	SG_DoneSeq1	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2212	With *pleasure*?! What is that supposed to mean?! Some heroes you are! *She crosses her arms on her chest and kicks a pot your way. You mix the ingredients together and offer the sorceress the resulting goop. It is, indeed, a sight to behold… right before barfing.*
Here it goes. *It takes Verdant a good while to actually do as she must, but eventually she proves her dedication to the cause and downs the mixture.*	SG_DoneSeq2	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2213	Well, the ring seemed stuck in my throat for a moment, but I think it passed through. WHO made this recipe? *She glares at a book lying to the side then takes the device and begins to activate it again. The mechanical voice is back.*
Targets found. Realms: Attuned. Time: Attuned.
Targets: Attuned. Captured. Removed. Resummoned. Placed. Detached. 
World: Enroth Year: 1176. Continent: Vori.
*The channeling is over and Verdant opens her eyes smiling at you.*	SG_DoneSeq3	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2214	All in all, that was pretty hero-efficient, I must say. One group for the prize of three and then two to spare for future or past catastrophes. Though with all of them placed in the same spot it might be a bit of a hero-oversaturation there. On the other hand, maybe they’ll fall in love and multiply eventually? If you ask me, I think the world needs all the heroes it can get. Yes, I *know* I can just check, don’t be such a buzz kill!
But great job, I mean it. Saving heroes, saving worlds, I might be falling in love with you myself. Just kidding, that’s a done deal. It was love at first sight!	SG_After	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2215	Acquire 10 5 Will’o’Wisp Hearts, 5 Wolf Eyes, 3 Phoenix Feathers, a vial of troll Blood, a vial of Gog Blood, 2 Dragon’s Eyes, and a Focal Ring to bring back the lost heroes.	SG_Quest	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2216	Other heroes#Help the Goobers#Telelocator#Infused metal rod#Guiding gem#Wisp wrappings#Telelocator parts#Enchant the Gem#Enchant the Rod#Attune the Telelocator#Attune #Activate the Telelocator#Activate!#Save the Goobers!#Mix the potion#...#Dimensionally displaced goobers	All topics	Verdant - Saving Goobers
2217	Placeholder	
2218	You see it about in field and town,
It cannot get up,
But will often fall down.		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2219	rain		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2220	The strongest chains will not bind it,
ditch and rampart will not slow it down.
A thousand soldiers cannot beat it,
it can knock down trees with a single push.		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2221	wind		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2222	An untiring servant it is,
carrying loads across muddy earth.
But one thing that cannot be forced,
is a return to the place of its birth.		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2223	river		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2224	With sharp edged wit,
And pointed poise,
It can settle disputes,
Without a noise.		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2225	sword		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2226	It is too much for one.
Two it is meant for.
But it no longer exists,
When the two become more.		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2227	secret		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2228	This old one runs forever,
But never moves at all.
He has not lungs, nor throat,
Still, a mighty roaring call.		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2229	waterfall		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2230	It can move over water,
But cannot fly.
It can move under water,
But stay quite dry.		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2231	shadow		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2232	It doesn't live with in a house,
Nor does it live without.
Most will use it when they come in,
And again when they go out.		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2233	door		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2234	A shimmering field that reaches far.
Yet it has no tracks,
And is crossed without paths.		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2235	ocean		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2236	This engulfing thing,
is strange indeed.
The greater it grows,
the less you see.		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2237	darkness		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2238	When it comes in,
From sea to shore,
Twenty paces you'll see,
No less, no more.		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2239	fog		Runaway Chaos - Riddles
2240	Placeholder		
2241	%s, friend! You are here, I'm so glad to meet you.	FQGreet	
2242	I thought I'm lost here, nice to see you again.	FQGreet	
2243	At least one familiar face amongst this madness, %s!	FQGreet	
2244	Finally, friends!	FQGreet	
2245	Who are you? Another horror of this place? If not, let's stay together.	FQRndGreet	
2246	Hello, live being.	FQRndGreet	
2247	All the wizards around here have gone mad, but their golems are still functioning. The important part is, I don’t want to be here any longer than I absolutely have to.	FQPlaceDescriptions	
2248	Can you believe these swordsmen thought I was Prince Nicolai? Amazing. Anyway, at least it’s safe in here.	FQPlaceDescriptions	
2249	The area is swarming with fire elementals. I killed some, but they just keep on coming. Well, at least the fort is empty, so there’s that. Man, it’s so hot in here. Do you have any water? Anything liquid?	FQPlaceDescriptions	
2250	These stinky hulks outside are about as friendly as they smell. I’ve snuck in here to wait for dawn to come, but it’s still dark outside and I’ve lost the track of time completely.	FQPlaceDescriptions	
2251	This place is a madhouse! The thing we’re looking for – the Runaway Chaos – it’s not a living being. Think of a ghost or a spirit of some sort.	FQHint1	
2252	This place… it sends shivers down my spine. It reminds me of Alvar, but we will find no elves here. The lights in the houses turn on and off, even though nobody is here. I think we should look for Runaway Chaos in one of the buildings.	FQHint2	
2253	Look, I found a diary of some poor sod. Or rather what remains of it. It seems someone got into the Breach long before us… if we can speak in terms of time around here at all. He wrote: “Everything in here is a reflection of things that happened, somewhere, somewhen. None of it is real, with the exception of the Personalities.” It looks like the poor fellow has failed to find a way out of here and began to lose his mind. The last pages are just filled with gibberish about some riddles.	FQHint3	
2254	My friends! I found it! The Runaway Chaos! Or maybe… maybe it found me? I don’t know, I don’t know, it all feels like a grand jest. It surrounded me with hellish creatures, monsters born of my nightmares. To scare me, perhaps, or just see what I would do. I fought to stay alive and it just laughed. As I say these words, I hear echoes of this screeching laughter piercing through my very skull. And when I finally fell to the ground, without a shred of power left to carry on, suddenly the nightmares… dissipated. Gone, every single one. But the wounds they left were real… and yet, when I looked down, there wasn’t a single cut. Only my torn clothes stood as proof that anything had happened at all.
And then the being spoke to me, in a voice so calm, my own shivers ceased. “I will ask you riddles five,” it said, “Answer them to feel alive. Make a wish if you succeed, maybe then you shall be freed.” I did not know the answers. But it let me be. I don’t know why. Maybe it felt pity. Or maybe it merely wanted to let me rest before it returns to torment me once again.	FQHint4	
2255	Don't waste my time!	FQRefuse	
2256	Never heard of it.	FQRefuse	
2257	What is this? A new shop?	FQRefuse	
2258	Ah, I do love me some riddles. Tell me what this is:	FQRiddleStart	
2259	I remember one from my childhood:	FQRiddleStart	
2260	Sometimes you can find riddles in random books. Delightfully unepexected. Like this one:	FQRiddleStart	
2261	This one was mumbled in a tavern by a drooling drunk. His last words, actually:	FQRiddleStart	
2262	Hmm, yes, that will do. It was fun picking your brain, very enjoyable indeed. A good time begs a good reward. Make a wish and I shall make it come true.	FQRC	
2263	I don't know anymore.		
2264	Correct!		
2265	Not quite, friend, not quite.		
2266			
2267	Well, I have no skills to offer, but I'm good company!  Just feed me and throw me a few gold pieces and I'll be happy to accompany you!	Profession texts	
2268	I'll happily join you for 200 gold and %17 percent of all the gold we find.  I'll fix any weapon you ask me to while I work for you.		
2269	I'm looking for work fixing armor.  All I charge is 200 gold to start and %17 percent of all the gold we find.  You won't regret hiring me!		
2270	I can mend any broken magic item you have, unless it's a piece of armor or a weapon.  My rate is 400 gold to start plus %17 percent of all the gold we find.		
2271	I studied under Lord Newton in Mist for eight years to learn to tell one magic item from another.  I'll work for you for 500 gold to start, plus a %17 percent share of all the gold we find.		
2272	I know shortcuts and back roads throughout Enroth.  I'll be your guide for a mere 100 gold to start and a %17 percent share of all the gold we find.		
2273	I know shortcuts and back roads throughout Enroth.  I'll be your guide for 200 gold to start, plus a %17 percent share of the gold we find.		
2274	I know shortcuts and back roads throughout Enroth.  I'll be your guide for a mere 300 gold to start, plus a %17 percent share of the gold we find.		
2275	Uh, Ya.  I can uh, you know, work.  On a boat.  I'll help get you places quicker.  With me, I can get you across the sea two days faster than normal.Uh, I uh, want oh, let's see, 100 gold to start, and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2276	I've spent quite some time putting together accurate charts of the waters surrounding our continent.  With my charts and my skill, I can get you across water three days faster than normal.  I charge 200 gold to start, plus %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2277	I can travel with you, my children, for an initial donation of 500 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find to my church.  Once per day I'll be able to heal you of all your wounds, short of death.		
2278	As an expert healer, I can heal your wounds and many other conditions (but not death or turned to stone) once per day.  All I require is a donation of 2000 to my church and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2279	As a master healer, my services are in demand by many, but my power to magically heal only works but once per day.  I can heal everything but eradication, and require a modest initial donation of 5000 gold to my temple and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2280	I can help you to interpret and understand what you see as you travel. I think my advice will increase your overall experience.  I must charge 300 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find for my services, however.		
2281	I can help you to interpret and understand what you see as you travel. I think my advice will increase your overall experience.  I must charge 700 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find for my  services, however.		
2282	Everyone benefits from good advice, and my advice on weapons and combat is amongst the best.  During battle, my direction will improve your skill at arms.  I charge but 300 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2283	Everyone benefits from good advice, and my advice on weapons and combat is the best.  During battle, my direction will significantly improve your skill at arms.  I charge but 400 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2284	I can lend a little magic to boost your spell skills and ease your magical burden for 500 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2285	I can lend a good deal of magic to magnify your spell skills for 1000 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2286	I can lend my considerable magic reserves to sharply increase your spell skills and effects for the low, low price of 2000 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2287	Sometimes, people have trouble bargaining in their own behalf.  I'll be happy to give you advice to better the prices you receive while bargaining with Merchants.  All I ask is 100 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2288	As a long time member of the Merchant's Guild, and a former rug Merchant myself, I know all the tricks of the trade like the back of my hand.  I can give you advice while bargaining with other Merchants to improve the prices you get.  My fee is but 200 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2289	My eyes are sharp, and my voice is loud.  I can alert you to danger before it strikes.  May save your life…And all I need is 300 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2290	I've spent my life in and around courts and bureaucracies, and I know how to make people more…sympathetic to a cause.  Hire me, and I'll do the same for you.  200 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2291	I've spent my life in and around courts and bureaucracies, and I know how to make people more…sympathetic to a cause.  Hire me, and I'll do the same for you.  300 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2292	I know a thing or two about fixing tools and whatnot.  I also know about locks.  I can help you pick them if you hire me for 200 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2293	Locksmithing is a difficult thing to learn, and you need a professional with you to help you handle the toughest locks.  I can work for you for 300 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2294	The gods favor drunks, children and fools.  Well, I'm a fool!  Take me with you and maybe the gods will favor you too.  All I want is 100 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find		
2295	People say Chimney Sweeps are lucky.  I don't know about that– sweeping chimneys is hard work!  But if you want, you could hire me for 200 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find..  Maybe I'll bring you good luck.		
2296	If you need someone to carry some traveller's comforts, like tents and cooking gear, I'm your man!  All I want is 100 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2297	For 200 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find, I'll organize all your camping needs and carry your gear.  I think you'll find me well worth the price!		
2298	For 500 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find I'll organize your finances and check all the coins you find for rarity.  I can usually increase a client's wealth by 5 percent.		
2299	For 1000 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find I'll organize your finances and check all the coins you find for rarity.  I can usually increase a client's wealth by 10 percent.		
2300	Ever want your own personal cook?  For 300 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find, I'll carry extra food and prepare your meals for myself and the four of you.  You won't be sorry– everyone loves my cooking!		
2301	I have studied in the finest cooking schools in Enroth, and I am willing to prepare your meals for a paltry 400 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2302	I can see you know little about handling horses and getting the most out of them.  I'll be happy to take care of any horses you use when you rent horses at the stables.  You'll get to your destination faster with my help.  All I want is 100 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2303	My reputation as a famous musician follows me wherever I go.  If I'm with you, I'm sure some of my reputation will rub off on you.  I only need 1000 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find for living expenses.		
2304	Dangerous Sorcerers abound throughout the land of Enroth.  Most use spells that do some sort of elemental damage, like fire or lightning.  I know a spell that will protect you from these elements, and I can keep it going all the time.  I'll cast it for you if you take me along.  All I want is 1000 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2305	For 200 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find, I can cast the Wizard Eye spell at expert level constantly.		
2306	Ever want to fly?  Take me with you and I can cast the Fly spell on you once a day.  All I ask is 2000 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.  Cheap, huh?		
2307	Ancient prophets claimed the power to walk on water, and I've rediscovered their secret.  Once per day I can cast the Water Walk spell on you and everyone with you.  My rate is 1000 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2308	There are spells that duplicate some of the natural magical features of Enroth.  One of those, Town Portal, I've learned to cast at master level.  I'll  cast it for you up to once per day if you hire me.  My price is 2000 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2309	For a donation of 200 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find to my temple, I'll travel with you and cast the Bless spell once per day.		
2310	All armies travelling in style bring a piper along to inspire them to heroic deeds during combat.  Even small groups like your own can benefit.  I'll travel with you for 300 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2311	My experience in travelling the world can speed your journeys by a day whether you travel by land or by sea.  All I require is 100 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2312	Arrr.  My life as a freedom-loving sailor has taught me to travel quickly on the seas and count my gold well.  But I'm down on my luck these days, so I'll sign on with you for only 500 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2313	All warriors need a squire to take care of their weapons and armor and back them up in battle.  I'll be your squire for 600 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2314	Fortune is my business, and I can improve your fortunes for 400 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2315	My entire life has been spent on the road, and believe me when I say you gotta know how to travel and you gotta know how to deal.  I can help you with both for 100 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2316	Not everyone knows how to talk strangers into giving them what they want.  I make it my specialty.  Bring me along and I'll use my skills to ease your way through society.  My rate is 500 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2317	Lots of people can be talked out of stuff they would never give up if they thought about it.  The trick is to talk fast and don't let them pause to consider what you're really saying.  I'll stay with you and coach you on this valuable skill for only 200 gold to start and %17 percent of the gold we find.		
2318	Need traps disarmed?  I've been doing it ever since I was released from jail three years ago.  If you need help, I'll come with you for free!  I need the practice.		
2319	I don't have any skills to offer you, but if this will get me out of school and away from my chores, I'd love to follow you around!		
2320			
2321	Unlimited weapon repair.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.	Profession descriptions	
2322	Unlimited armor repair.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2323	Unlimited magic item repair.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2324	Unlimited item Identification and a 5 percent bonus on all experience gained.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2325	All map crossings one day faster (minimum one day).  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2326	All map crossings two days faster (minimum one day).  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2327	All map crossings three days faster (minimum one day).  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2328	All boat travel 2 days faster (minimum one day).  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2329	All boat travel 3 days faster (minimum one day).  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2330	Cures all party hit points once a day.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2331	Cures all party hit points and conditions (excepting dead, stoned, or eradicated) once per day.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2332	Completely heals party of all hit points and conditions once per day.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2333	Ten percent bonus on all experience learned.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2334	Fifteen percent bonus on all experience learned.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2335	Two point bonus to all weapon skills for all characters.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2336	Three point bonus to all weapon skills for all characters.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2337	Two point bonus to all spell skills for all characters.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2338	Three point bonus to all spell skills for all characters.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2339	Four point bonus to all spell skills for all characters.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2340	Four point bonus to Merchant skill for all characters.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2341	Six point bonus to Merchant skill for all characters.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2342	Six point bonus to perception skill for all characters.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2343	Four point bonus to Diplomacy skill for all characters.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2344	Eight point bonus to Diplomacy skill for all characters.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2345	Four point bonus to Disarm Traps skill for all characters.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2346	Six point bonus to Disarm Traps skill for all characters.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2347	Five point bonus to Luck statistic for all characters.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2348	Twenty point bonus to Luck statistic for all characters.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2349	One less day of food use when camping, (minimum of one used).  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2350	Two less days of food use when camping, (minimum of one used).  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2351	 Ten percent bonus on all gold found.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2352	 Twenty percent bonus on all gold found.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2353	Makes one day of food per day (maximum of 14 days).  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2354	Makes two days of food per day (maximum of 14 days).  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2355	Trips using the stables take two days fewer to complete (minimum one day).  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2356	Grants a constant, single category bonus to your reputation.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2357	Increases protection from the four elements by 20 constantly.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2358	Keeps the Wizard Eye spell at expert ranking going at all times.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2359	 Casts the Fly spell (duration 2 hours) once per day.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2360	Casts the Water Walk spell (duration 3 hours) once per day.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2361	Casts the Town Portal spell at master ranking once per day.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2362	Casts the Bless spell (duration 2 hours) at master ranking once per day.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2363	Casts the Heroism spell (duration 2 hours) at master ranking once per day.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2364	All travel times reduced by one day (minimum of one day).  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2365	All boat travel reduced by two days, gold is increased by ten percent when found, and Reputation is decreased by one full category.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2366	Armor and weapon skills are increased by two points for each character.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2367	Perception skill is increased by five points and Luck statistics are increased by ten points for each character.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2368	Food use is reduced by one day's worth of food when resting (minimum one day), Merchant skill is increased by three points for each character, and Reputation is decreased by one full category.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2369	Both Merchant and Diplomacy skills are increased by four points for each character.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2370	Merchant skill is increased by eight points for each character and Reputation is decreased by one full category.  %01 takes %17 percent of all gold you find.		
2371	Disarm Traps skill is increased by eight points for each character and Reputation is decreased by one full category.  %01 costs you nothing!		
2372			
2373		BTB Texts	
2374	Good %05!  I'm %01.  Pleased to meet you!	Peasant BTB	
2375	Oh, Hullo %02.  Nice %05, isn't it?  		
2376	Hey, I already said I didn't want to be seen with you.  Get lost!		
2377	Always glad to be of service, %06.  Do you have %04 for me?		
2378	Please don't kill me!  I've told you everything you asked for!		
2379	I only talk to real people, not unknowns like yourselves.  I'm busy now, so go away.		
2380	Oh No!  Please don't hurt me, %06 %02! I'll tell you anything!		
2381	The infamous %06 %02!  I heard you've been murdering people right and left.  That's great!  What can I do for you?		
2382	%07 %02!  What an honor!  Everyone is talking about how you %08!  What can I do for you?		
2383	Oh No!  %06 %02!  I didn't do it!  It was the other guy!  I wasn't there!  I'll tell you anything--anything, just don't hurt me!		
2384	Oh…you people.  I can't even bear to think of things people are saying about you!  Go away and leave me alone!		
2385	Oooh…I'm talking to %06 never do wrong!  Such an honor.  		
2386	Although I have not heard many bad things about you, %02, I haven't heard many good stories either.  I just don't trust you.		
2387	%02, eh?  I hear you might be a sheriff in disguise.  I don't talk to sheriffs. Or guards…. or King's men.  Maybe if you did a few crimes I could trust you. 		
2388	I've heard so many bad things about you.  Why won't you leave me alone?  I want no trouble from you!		
2389	Maybe I didn't tell you before:  I don't like you.  I don't see why the high and mighty would want to talk to a lowlife like me anyway, so go away!		
2390	I'm simply not impressed.  Your reputation is but %11.  I won't talk to you unless it improves.		
2391	Your reputation is just too pure for me.  I don't like it.  It's not right.  Maybe if I heard some more bad gossip about you we could talk.  Until then…		
2392	Oh, all right.  But I really don't want to be seen with you.  Let's not make this a habit.		
2393	n/a		
2394	Thank you, %06.  Now, what did you want?		
2395	n/a		
2396	<gulp> I get it. Yes, %06.  What do you want of me?		
2397	n/a		
2398			
2399	%02, eh?  I'll remember that.	Monster BTB	
2400	%02 again.  What do you want?		
2401	My patience is at its end.  Go away and stop bothering me.		
2402	More!  More gold!  Yes!  Give me %04 more!		
2403	Ooooh, %06, no need to threaten me again, I'll talk.		
2404	I will not talk to nobodies.  Leave me.		
2405	Monsters!  I have heard of your crimes.  I would slay you if I could.		
2406	Your infamy precedes you, %02.  Anything to serve one so wicked as you, %06.		
2407	%07 %02.  I am gratified to know you.  What is mine is yours.		
2408	Hissssss….Please, don't slay me.  I am a worm, not worth your trouble.  I grovel at your feet, mighty %10.		
2409	I don't speak with evil humans.  Go away before I become…violent.		
2410	Oh, hooray.  It's the good guys.  You're lucky I'm in a good mood right now.  Leave me before it changes.		
2411	Most humans are evil…and a simple lack of criminal reputation isn't enough to make me trust you.  Leave me.		
2412	%02. I smell traces of an awful goodness seeping from your pores.  I can't stand it!  Go and commit some acts of unspeakable evil.  Maybe then I'll talk to  you.		
2413	Back again, %02?  I thought you were smarter than that.  I can smell the evil on you.  It makes me hungry!		
2414	My mood grows sour as I contemplate your lack of evil.  I have nothing to say to you.		
2415	The stories I hear about you are %11, but that isn't good enough.  Be on your way.		
2416	I can sense goodness upon you, %02.  Bring yourself down to %11, and then return to me.		
2417	Your groveling has touched my heart.  I will talk to you for a moment.		
2418	n/a		
2419	Yes, good.  What do you want?		
2420	n/a		
2421	Please, don't slay me!  I will tell you what you want to know!		
2422	n/a		
2423			
2424	Hi.  Name's %01.  	Thief BT	
2425	How're you doin', %02?		
2426	n/a		
2427	Price is the same every time, %06.  %04 gold!		
2428	Hey, uh, we're still friends, right?  What do you need?		
2429	Go away kid, ya bother me.  Come back when you're not as wet behind the ears.		
2430	It's <gulp>…%06 %02 and %09 band of merry pranksters!  You are so well known around here!  A real…honor, my %10.		
2431	Ah, the notorious %06 %02.  Anything for you, %02!		
2432	Your exploits are known far and wide, %06 %02.  %01 at your service, my %10.		
2433	%07 %02!  So good to see you in person!  Which is surprising, since you are so famous and powerful and good, while I am so weak and pitiful.  Not worth your time, no, not at all. Aheh-heh…Heh.		
2434	You've a %11 reputation, %06.  I don't want anything to do with you.		
2435	<sneer> Stinkin' goody two-shoes.  They say you %08.  Well isn't that just wonderful?  You people make me sick.  Go your way before I do something you'll regret!		
2436	Nothing I've heard about you makes me want to speak with you, %02.  I'm not saying you are bad people;  I'm just saying that you might not be good.  Perhaps if you improved your reputation…		
2437	<squinting>  Hmm.  I've heard that you have a bad reputation.  That's a good start, but not quite enough.  Your reputation is going to have to get a lot worse before I trust you!		
2438	There's a lot of talk about you people and none of it is good.  I can't be seen with you.  Let's go our separate ways, shall we?		
2439	Oh, back again, huh?  Have you been deputized yet?  Favored by the King?  Well, I'll tell you--Mayors and Kings may welcome your type, but I sure don't.  Watch your back.		
2440	Ah, %02.  Until the rumors and gossip about you grow more positive, I don't want to talk to you. 		
2441	Look, all my friends are uncertain about trusting you.  Until you do something to earn our faith, something illegal, I just can't be seen with you.  It makes me look bad.		
2442	n/a		
2443	I gave at the Guild.  I'm not interested. I'm broke.  It's not my problem.  Get a job.  I don't care…Don't you get it?  Go away, I don't want to talk to you!		
2444	A pleasure doing business with you, %06.  What can I do for you?		
2445	n/a		
2446	Ok, ok!  Whatever you say, boss.		
2447	n/a		
2448			
2449	<bowing> %01, at your service.	Merchant BT	
2450	Always a pleasure, %06 %02.		
2451	n/a		
2452	Ahh, yes.  < %01 rubs %03 hands together> More important business and discussion, I suppose.  The price, as always, is %04.		
2453	Oh, dear!  What more do you want?		
2454	My merchandise is both rare and high quality.  So are my customers.  Since you are low quality customers, it would seem we are unable to conduct business.		
2455	Oh, my, %02!  Please don't rob me!  I have nothing of value!  All I own is debt!  Have mercy, my %10!		
2456	%07 %02!  That was really something when you slaughtered everyone in that small village!  Had it coming, if you ask me.  That was you…wasn't it?  Well, anyway, what can I do for you?		
2457	I heard about how you %08.  It is an honor and a pleasure.  Anything for you, my %10.		
2458	Please, please, don't kill me, your worship! <sob>  I am a wretch, not worth tiring your sword arm.  If you leave me alone, I will die on my own soon anyway!  Have mercy, mighty %10!  Have mercy!		
2459	%02...  I've heard things about you, none of them good.  Please remove yourself from my presence.  Immediately.		
2460	Psssst!  Hey, you wanna buy a <squints> wait a minute…never mind.		
2461	I only deal with people I know and trust.  Since I haven't heard anything good about you, I have  no reason to trust you.  Good day.		
2462	%10 %02.  I've heard of you.  They say your reputation is %11.  That says a lot, but I need to hear more before I feel I can safely deal with you.  Come back to me after you have proven yourself some more.		
2463	I do not speak to ruffians!  Your reputation is %11, well below my standards.		
2464	Are you talking to me?  Go bother someone else.  I have nothing for you.		
2465	Persons of quality are not telling me that you are a person of quality.  Since I only deal with people whose reputations are %12 or better, we have nothing further to talk about.		
2466	I just can't trust you.  Maybe if your reputation were to fall to %11, or worse we could talk.  <bowing> Until then %10.		
2467	n/a		
2468	What about me makes you think I care about you or your problems?  Begone, or I shall set the town guard on you.		
2469	Thank you!  Please, tell me what it is you are seeking.		
2470	n/a		
2471	I see.  No need for violence.  What is it you need?		
2472	n/a		
2473			
2474	I am %01.  What do you want?	Sorcerer TB	
2475	<sigh> Back so soon?		
2476	I told you already--I don't have time for you.  Maybe tomorrow.		
2477	n/a		
2478	Grrrr…someday…All right, what is it?		
2479	You may have heard of me.  Some call me…%02.  Being famous, I only associate with other famous and important people.  You are neither.  Begone.		
2480	I never thought that I might one day come face to face with one as evil as you, %02.  This is not a happy day.  What are your demands?		
2481	A delight to finally meet the mighty %06 %02 in the flesh.  The denizens of the netherworld can't stop praising your exploits, and they eagerly await your inevitable arrival…Until then, how may I serve you, my %10?		
2482	To know you is to love you, honorable %06 %02!  You are the ones who %08.  You have but to ask and from me you will receive!		
2483	Wait!  Please don't attack me!  I'll stop the experiments,  I swear!  No more evil sorcery for me..I'm done with that, you can count on me, %10 %02.  		
2484	Bah!  I haven't time enough for the likes of you!  I will only speak to people of good repute--people who's reputation is %12…or better.		
2485	May the dark gods save us from the righteous!  Is there no end to you people?  Get away from me before I put a hex on you!		
2486	I am afraid I cannot associate with people whose charm and reputation do not approach my own.  It would taint my aura.  Sorry.		
2487	%02, I am %01.  I am constrained by pacts and promises I have made from dealing over much with the innocent.  I only tell you this because I heard that your reputation is %11.  That's bad, but not bad enough.  Return after performing a few more despicable acts.  Then we will talk.		
2488	I grow wrathful thinking about all the negative things the wind whispers about you.  Your reputation is %11!  Not very nice.  Now begone, before my wrath turns to action!		
2489	Wasn't I rude enough the last time we spoke?  I detest you!  Your angelic faces turn my stomach!  Your innocence nauseates me! Leave!		
2490	%02.  Your reputation suffers.  Prolonged association with the likes of you imperils the purity of my aura.  I don't want to speak with you.		
2491	Your aura lacks the mottled purple and yellow spots I must see before I am allowed to speak with you.  You must do more evil, %02, before we can safely talk.		
2492	<sigh> Very well.  But this is it for today!  I don't have time for you.		
2493	n/a		
2494	n/a		
2495	Money alone will not sway me, scoundrel!		
2496	Hmmm.  You have a point.  What do you want?		
2497	n/a		
2498			
2499	%02.  Charmed, I'm sure.	Scholar TB	
2500	What is it, %02?		
2501	No.  I won't let you waste any more of my time.  Perhaps tomorrow.		
2502	n/a		
2503	Now what?  Have you returned to slay me?  I will surely call out your name before you strike me down!  Someone will come to save me!		
2504	I haven't time for simple folk such as yourselves!  Perhaps when you have become more sophisticated…		
2505	Oh dear, the infamous %06 %02 and accomplices…I suppose begging for my life isn't enough.  What do you want of me?		
2506	My %10, everyone with an open mind in the Kingdom follows your deliciously outrageous behavior.  Such a wonderful history your deeds will make.  How may I serve you?		
2507	Your deeds are known far and wide, my %10.  I will gladly serve you.		
2508	I know you're thinking you should strike me down like the dog I am, %10, but surely a saint like yourself can find it in your heart to overlook past indiscretions… Can't you?		
2509	People have been talking about how you like to commit crimes, %02.  I don't like how that sounds, so I don't want to talk to you.		
2510	I doubt you would approve of my researches into the darker magics, just as I would not approve of your intolerant ways.  I have nothing further to say to you.		
2511	The court of public opinion about you is divided, %02.  Some say you are good people, others are not so sure. I, for one, will wait for more good rumors about you before I will speak with you.		
2512	Look--I'm bad company.  Evil, pure and simple, through and through.  How would it look to all my friends to be caught associating with people who lack the kind of %12 reputation we have?  That's right--simply dreadful.		
2513	The talk about you and your friends is that you are not decent folk, %02.  I, for one, will have nothing to do with you.		
2514	It is a pleasure withholding information from righteous do-gooders like you!  Beg me to reconsider and I might condescend to speak with you.		
2515	<sigh>  Though your reputation is at least %11, I promised my mother that I wouldn't talk to people whose reputation wasn't at least %12.  Sorry.		
2516	Your reputation is only %12!  I can't be seen with you.  Everyone I know would laugh at me!  I only associate with people whose reputation is %11 or worse.		
2517	Fine, but make it quick.		
2518	n/a		
2519	n/a		
2520	Money means little.  Knowledge is power to me.  		
2521	Understood %06.  I want to live.  What do you need?		
2522	n/a		
2523			
2524	Hello there!  A mighty fine %05, if you ask me!  I'm %01.	Adventurer BB	
2525	Good to see you again!  Hahahaha!  Uhm…What did you say your name was?		
2526	My generosity ends here.  I've already helped you today and I am sick of seeing you.  Leave me.		
2527	<looking both ways> %04, then, and lets make this quick!		
2528	n/a		
2529	<yawns>  Not interested.  Go away--I'm waiting for someone important to speak to.		
2530	%02!  Villain! How dare you speak to me?		
2531	Infamous %06, It is an honor to know you and a pleasure to serve you.  What do you desire?		
2532	Ah, the famous and honorable %06 %02!  <bowing> Whatsoever you desire that is in my power to give, I freely grant.		
2533	%02.  <spits on the ground>		
2534	O Ho!  %13! Er, %13.  I think.  Whatever.  There's gossip about you--all of it bad.  Get thee hence, lest I spit thee on the point of my sword!		
2535	%13, eh? <loosening %03 sword> Better take to your heels…I don't much care for you law-abiding types.		
2536	Hello!  I'm %01!  I've heard of you, %13, and while you haven't done anything too terribly wrong, or at least that I've heard, you haven't done much good, either.  So get out there and do some good deeds!  Maybe then I'll talk to you.		
2537	%13, it is good to meet you at last.  Your reputation is %11.  Could be worse.  Matter of fact, it makes me think you are some kind of wimp!  Yeah, until I hear worse, I don't want to be seen with you.  Get out of my sight!		
2538	Back again, %13?  Is this some sort of challenge?  Have you come to insult me?  Friend %13, I warn you--you're walking a narrow bridge with me, and the chasm is very deep…very deep indeed!		
2539	I am this far--this far from hacking your saintly head from your shoulders!  Leave me while you still can.		
2540	%13!  Maybe someday I will have something to say to you!  Maybe.  But not until your reputation improves.		
2541	%13!  You've returned!  Returned with a reputation of %11…Hmmm.  Looks wimpy to me.  Do something to impress me, 'cause I don't associate with the weak, or the helpless.  Until then, take off, eh?		
2542	I suppose I could speak to you for a few minutes.  Hurry up.		
2543	n/a		
2544	Yes, now what is it you need, %13?		
2545	n/a		
2546	n/a		
2547	<drawing %03 sword> I don't take kindly to threats…		
2548			
2549	Peace, %06.  My name is %14 %01.  	Priest BB	
2550	A glorious %05, %02.  How may I help you?		
2551	Though your need is obviously great, It would be a disservice to others to attend solely to your needs.  Perhaps some other time.		
2552	Have you returned for more spiritual advice? The donation is still %04.		
2553	n/a		
2554	I have important matters to attend to, child.  Someday you'll be important too, but you aren't yet, so go now, in peace.		
2555	It is the Devil himself before me!  I do not fear you, nor will I help you!		
2556	My Master…your work in the name of darkness is unparalleled.  Your evil is superior to mine.  To serve you is my one and only desire.		
2557	Praise the Light!  A gift from Heaven to be in the presence of the sweet and honorable %10 %06! 		
2558	The higher you climb, the farther you will fall…And you have climbed oh so high!  Rest assured, sainted one, that I will not be there to catch you when you fall!		
2559	I have heard that you stopped walking in the Light.  Return to me when you have found your way.		
2560	Begone, fool!  I will not speak to cowards unwilling to travel the shadowed path.		
2561	You haven't an aura of evil or good strong enough for my spells to detect.  Until I know one way or the other, I must decline to speak with you.		
2562	%02, your reputation is %11, indicating to me that there is hope you will join the darkness yet!  Still, there are traces of goodness in your soul that are troublesome.  Eliminate them and return.  Then we can talk.		
2563	Still dealing in shadows?  I know you can do better, %02.  Go in peace, and return once you have renounced your evil ways.		
2564	You try my patience, craven one.  I am tempted to experiment with the powers the netherworld has granted me…		
2565	My dear %02.  You must tend to your soul before I can attend to your needs.  Go, and return only when your feet are more firmly on the righteous path.		
2566	%02, your personal darkness is shot through with streaks of light.  I won't have it!  I refuse to deal with the uncommitted, the uncertain, and the weak!  Return to me after you have proven your evil and stained your soul!		
2567	How could I not respond to such a piteous cry for help?  What do you require, %15?		
2568	n/a		
2569	I see now that you are not a malicious defiler of all I hold dear, but rather a misguided soul that has lost %09 way.  How may I help you, child?		
2570	n/a		
2571	n/a		
2572	I will not bow to threats.		
2573			
2574	<sigh> Yes?	Official Br	
2575	Ah, yes, %02.  Can I help you?		
2576	n/a		
2577	I'm afraid I will require a second payment, %06.  %04 now, or the conversation ends here.		
2578	n/a		
2579	Sorry, I'm looking for famous Heroes, not unknown peasants.  Be off with you now.		
2580	Oh, the notorious %02.  Yes, I've heard of you, and I'm not impressed.  I hope you are brought to justice soon!		
2581	By the Word, your deeds are an inspiration to us all!  Keep up the good work--with your help, the Kingdom will surely fall soon!		
2582	An honor, great %10.  How may I serve you?		
2583	Oh, saints preserve us, it's the %10 of Heaven, come to do justice! <smirks> Let me worship you, your Highness…		
2584	My sources tell me that you may have committed a number of crimes.  You must clear those problems up before I can speak with you.		
2585	Sorry, %06 but it doesn't matter to me if you %08.  As a matter of fact, I consider your holier-than-thou attitude quite insulting…%06.		
2586	A smart official only associates with people of quality reputation.  Your reputation is only %11.  Not good enough for me.  Sorry.		
2587	%02.  I understand you may be something less than a good citizen, and perhaps something more than a common criminal…There are always uses for such as you--if not for me than for my…associates.  But I need more proof!  Commit some more crimes--then we can talk.  And don't tell anyone we spoke about this--I'll deny our little conversation if accused.		
2588	%02? The record is still quite clear:  Your reputation is %11.  Our conversation must end here.		
2589	<sigh> Back again?!?		
2590	I will only associate with people who won't embarrass me!  You will.  Maybe if people start telling me your reputation is %12.  Until then…		
2591	I retain doubts about your commitment to a life on the shady side.  I must hear that your reputation is %12 or less!  Otherwise I can have nothing to do with you!		
2592	n/a		
2593	Beg all you like.  I still won't help you.		
2594	Thank you.  How may I be of service?		
2595	n/a		
2596	n/a		
2597	A threat?  You had best be gone before I set the watch on you!		
2598			
2599	What is it?	Guard Br	
2600	Back again, %02?		
2601	n/a		
2602	%04 is still the price.		
2603	n/a		
2604	%02?  Never heard of you.  Now go away and stop wasting my time.		
2605	<drawing %03 sword> %02! Prepare to die!		
2606	%10 %02.<pulling a flask from inside %03 jerkin> A toast to those who do what they want when they want!		
2607	%10 %02.  An honor.		
2608	<drawing %03 sword> %02!  In the name of Zenofex, prepare to die!		
2609	I heard you may have been less than lawful, recently.  If it could be proven, I would arrest you right now. 		
2610	Word is you %08.  That makes me sick!  If you aren't away from me soon, I'll do a lot more than just arrest you!		
2611	I have been instructed to talk only with persons of sound reputation.  Yours is %11, while I must demand %12.  Be on your way.		
2612	I have been ordered to speak only with persons of, ah, the right kind of reputation.  Yours is merely %11.  Be on your way.		
2613	I still think I should arrest you.		
2614	I can't believe you're back.  My sword hand is starting to itch…		
2615	I can't talk to you.  I know your reputation is only %11. It must be better.  Orders.  Sorry.		
2616	I can't talk to you.  I know your reputation is only %11. It must be worse.  Orders.  Sorry.		
2617	n/a		
2618	<kicking at you> Get away from me!		
2619	Thanks.  What is it you wanted?		
2620	n/a		
2621	n/a		
2622	HA!  <drawing %03 sword> Threaten me, will you?		
2623			
2624	Hello friend! <making a curious gesture with thumb and nose> Baaaa! The end of the world draws nigh!	Evil Fanatic T	
2625	Ah, %16. The Signs are dark indeed, aren't they?		
2626	n/a		
2627	n/a		
2628	No need to threaten me a second time--I'll cooperate.  After all, Baa will rule the Kingdom in the end.  Nothing you or I can say or do will change that.		
2629	Hmmm?  What? Here, go away, I don't have time for the little people--that means you!  You aren't famous enough.		
2630	%02!  <shrieking> Please don't kill me! I'll tell you anything!		
2631	<smiling>  The end of the world nears--with a little help from you and me, %10 %02.  Is there anything I can do for you?		
2632	Wonderful %10 %02!  You have come to save the world!  Praise be!  I only hope you aren't too late.		
2633	Too bad you're on the losing side, %02!  But listen, I'll tell you anything you want--the Temple of Baa will reign soon no matter what you do!  Just please don't kill me. 		
2634	Oh, my!  Everyone is saying terrible things about you and your friends, %02.  I'm afraid I can't speak with you.		
2635	Baaaa! <grinning nastily> Baaa! The herd calls, friend.  Why not go and do some good deeds or something?  G'won!  Git!		
2636	I absolutely, categorically refuse to speak with persons whose reputation is less than %12.		
2637	Baaa, friend %02!  I've heard that you might be just the kind of people we are looking for.  But I'm not sure.  You need to get a reputation for doing those things our cult requires…I'm sure you get the idea!		
2638	<whispering> I'm still not allowed to speak with you, %02!  Now please go, before I'm seen with you!		
2639	Are you soft in the head?  I said go away!  I don't need any good deeds done today.		
2640	Everyone in my secret cult tells me that you aren't nice enough to be with.  So go get nicer and I'll start talking to you.		
2641	Your reputation isn't appropriate for my organization, %02, therefore I can't be seen talking to you.  Come back when your reputation has…improved.		
2642	n/a		
2643	I already told you I don't really care for you.  Bother someone else.		
2644	n/a		
2645	My devotion to Baa is greater than any amount of money.  I will never accept your bribe, never!		
2646	Ok, Ok!  Please, don't kill me.  I'm not supposed to die yet.		
2647	n/a		
2648			
2649	Hello! My name is %01, and I am pleased to meet you, %02.	Paladin Be	
2650	A fine %05, %02, is it not?		
2651	I'm no longer in a good mood.  Go trouble someone else.		
2652	n/a		
2653	n/a		
2654	Don't bother me, simpleton!  I reserve my time solely for known, capable Heroes--not for unknown, incompetent, peasants.		
2655	<eyes widening> %02? Villain!  The world would be a better place without you!		
2656	<bowing deeply> %10 %02! Your evil is known throughout the land!  Consider me your most ardent supporter.		
2657	An honor to know you, %02.  I am at your service.		
2658	%02.  Your shining goodness is giving me a headache. <rubbing %03 temples>  I think I'm going to have to slay you to cure it.		
2659	There is a rumor going 'round saying that you are a criminal.  I'm afraid I don't associate with criminals.		
2660	Everyone says your reputation is %11.  I hate that.  But, because you amuse me, I'll let you live awhile longer--as long as you go pester someone else.		
2661	My name is %01.  It would be a violation of my sacred oaths to speak with people whose reputation is less than %12.  Therefore, I must bid you good day.		
2662	%02.  As a Champion of evil, it pleases me to hear that your reputation is %11, but you just aren't evil enough for me!  Get worse!  I'm talking atrocities!  Cause a calamity or do something dastardly, then we can talk.		
2663	%02, your reputation is %11.  My instincts tell me to slay you on the spot, but in the interests of charity, I'll give you a chance to redeem yourself by letting you live.  For now.		
2664	You've returned to try my patience, I see.		
2665	Hmm.  %02.  I have sworn an oath to avoid those of ill repute.  Your reputation is %11, which is beneath me.  Perhaps if it improves...		
2666	%02, your evil wavers.  More.  More I say!  You need to be at least %12 for me to want to talk to you, so get to work!  		
2667	Hmmm.  All right.  But only because my mood is good.		
2668	n/a		
2669	n/a		
2670	I think not.  No amount of money could change my opinion of you.		
2671	n/a		
2672	You would challenge me?  I am ready for the likes of you!		
2673			
2674	%02.  I am pleased to make your acquaintance.	Noble Be	
2675	%02.  I hope you aren't going to waste my time…		
2676	Your audience is over.  Be off with you and trouble me no further today.		
2677	n/a		
2678	n/a		
2679	I am looking to speak with Heroes, not children.  If you want my time, go do something heroic.		
2680	Hmmm.  The infamous and wicked %02. I am surprised that one of the Heroes of the land has not yet slain you.  I shall be sure to help raise the bounty on your heads.		
2681	A pleasure to know the intriguing and adventurous %10 %02.  When I first heard about your wickedness, I was very impressed!		
2682	Ah! An honor and a privilege to see you, %02.  My considerable resources are at your disposal.		
2683	Clearly, you are the enemy, O Champion of righteousness! Your speedy death would please me.		
2684	My sources tell me that you have committed a number of crimes.  They say you may even have KILLED.  I am afraid that with that record, I cannot help you.		
2685	Not everyone appreciates how you %08.  I am one of those people.  I doubt we have much to say to one another.		
2686	I will not sully my excellent reputation by conversing with one whose reputation is merely %11.		
2687	I can see you might be the type of person I commonly associate with, %02, but the rumors of your behavior vary.  I must hear more before I will tolerate your presence.  Perhaps you could dominate and bully some peasants…		
2688	It is unseemly for me to be seen talking to criminals like yourselves.  Now get out of my sight!		
2689	I still do not quite care for you %02.  Your reputation amongst the common folk is %11, which is a bad business in my book.  		
2690	My friends all tell me your reputation is %11, %02.  That's not good enough!  Perhaps a good deed or two would make your presence more acceptable to civilized society.		
2691	I cannot believe you would enter my presence with a reputation of merely %11!  The insult is dire indeed, %10.  Leave, and return when your reputation is %12!		
2692	Today I will grant your wish. I will speak with you.  Briefly.		
2693	n/a		
2694	n/a		
2695	Your paltry wealth isn't enough to even tempt me.  I will not be bribed.		
2696	n/a		
2697	I will not bow to your threats!		
2698	Jars. Yessss. You have helped us greatly.	See Scripts/Global/PromotionTopics.lua	
2699	Join guild	See Scripts/Global/PromotionTopics.lua	
2700	Well, sorcerers among you seeking for power of dark arts? Pay 10000 bill and step into our chambers.	See Scripts/Global/PromotionTopics.lua	
2701	We will not allow any rambler to sneak here. Pay and study or scram!	See Scripts/Global/PromotionTopics.lua	
2702	Perfect! Now i call all sorcerers among you necromancers, don't pretend to be good anymore.	See Scripts/Global/PromotionTopics.lua	
2703	Welcome, necromancers.	See Scripts/Global/PromotionTopics.lua	
2704	, 	See Scripts/Global/Quest_SavingGoobers.lua	
2705	(	See Scripts/Global/Quest_SavingGoobers.lua	
2706	)	See Scripts/Global/Quest_SavingGoobers.lua	
2707	Well, this is %s.	See Scripts/Global/Quest_SavingGoobers.lua	
2708	Done!	See Scripts/Global/Quest_SavingGoobers.lua	
2709	Anya Charo	See Scripts/Global/Quest_CrossContinents.lua	
2710	Wan Ruchos	See Scripts/Global/Quest_CrossContinents.lua	
2711	Noah Charo	See Scripts/Global/Quest_CrossContinents.lua	
2712	Chan Os Wy	See Scripts/Global/Quest_CrossContinents.lua	
2713	R.C. Wosch	See Scripts/Global/Quest_CrossContinents.lua	
2714	Placeholder	Last entry in NPCText.txt is a placeholder and must not be used	