Item#	message text	Location	Item Name
700	"
A Black Potion of Rejuvenation can be valuable in correcting the effects of aging.  To mix such a potion you need to find the correct combination of three of each of the base reagents. "	Rejuvenation	Empty Message Scroll
701	"
A Black Potion of Pure Might is any adventurer's dream.  The addition to permanent might can turn ANYONE into a fighting machine.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of four of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents.  "	Pure Might	Empty Message Scroll
702	"
A Black Potion of Pure Accuracy is any archer's dream.  The addition to permanent accuracy can turn ANYONE into a fighting machine.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of four of any yellow reagent type, plus two of any red reagent type and one of the blue reagents.  "	Pure Accuracy	Empty Message Scroll
703	"
The Black Potion of Pure Personality will add to a character's permanent personality. This will increase the total spell points based off Personality. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type, plus four of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents.  "	Pure Personality	Empty Message Scroll
704	"
A Black Potion of Pure Endurance is any adventurer's dream.  The addition to permanent endurance can turn ANYONE into a fighting machine, increasing their hit points far beyond normal.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type, plus four of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents.  "	Pure Endurance	Empty Message Scroll
705	"
The Black Potion of Pure Intellect will add to a character's permanent intellect, increasing the total spell points based off of intellect. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and four of the yellow reagents.  "	Pure Intellect	Empty Message Scroll
706	"
The Black Potion of Pure Speed could be the answer for a party who just doesn't get the jump on the monsters.  The addition to permanent speed could be just what is needed to allow you to recover and act before the monsters do.  You can never be too quick. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of four of any red reagent type, plus one of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents.  "	Pure Speed	Empty Message Scroll
707	"
The Black Potion of Pure Luck could be the answer for a party who is disarm trap skill challenged.  The addition to permanent luck could be just what is needed to allow you to duck before a trap goes off.  You can never have too much luck. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type, plus three of any blue reagent type and three of the yellow reagents."	Pure Luck	Empty Message Scroll
708	"
The Black Potion of Slaying can turn any normal weapon into a weapon of dragon slaying.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type, plus three of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents."	Slaying Potion	Empty Message Scroll
709	"
The Black Potion of Stone to Flesh allows you to remove the stoned condition on a character. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and three of the yellow reagents."	Stone To Flesh	Empty Message Scroll
710	"
The White Potion of Might Boost temporarily boosts your strength just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type and two of any blue reagents."	Might Boost	Empty Message Scroll
711	"
The White Potion of Intellect Boost temporarily boosts your intellect just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any blue reagent type and three of any yellow reagents."	Intellect Boost	Empty Message Scroll
712	"
The White Potion of Personality Boost temporarily boosts your personality just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any blue reagent type and two of any yellow reagents."	Personality Boost	Empty Message Scroll
713	"
The White Potion of Endurance Boost temporarily boosts your endurance just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type and three of any blue reagents."	Endurance Boost	Empty Message Scroll
714	"
The White Potion of Speed Boost temporarily boosts your speed just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type and two of any yellow reagents."	Speed Boost	Empty Message Scroll
715	"
The White Potion of Accuracy Boost temporarily boosts your accuracy just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type and three of any yellow reagents."	Accuracy Boost	Empty Message Scroll
716	"
The White Flaming Potion turns any normal weapon into a weapon of Flame. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type, plus one of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents."	Flaming Potion	Empty Message Scroll
717	"
The White Freezing Potion turns any normal weapon into a weapon of Frost. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents."	Freezing Potion	Empty Message Scroll
718	"
The White Noxious Potion turns any normal weapon into a weapon of Poison. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents."	Noxious Potion	Empty Message Scroll
719	"
The White Shocking Potion turns any normal weapon into a weapon of Sparks. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type, plus one of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents."	Shocking Potion	Empty Message Scroll
720	"
The White Swift Potion turns any normal weapon into a weapon of Swiftness. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type, plus three of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents."	Swift Potion	Empty Message Scroll
721	"
The White Potion of Cure Paralysis eliminates the Paralysis condition. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type, plus one of any blue reagent type and three of the yellow reagents."	Cure Paralysis	Empty Message Scroll
722	"
The White Potion of Divine Restoration eliminates all conditions except stoned, dead or eradicated. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents."	Divine Restoration	Empty Message Scroll
723	"
The White Potion of Divine Cure is more powerful than the Potion of Cure Wounds. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type and any three of the yellow reagents."	Divine Cure	Empty Message Scroll
724	"
The White Potion of Divine Power is a more powerful spell point restorative than is the Magic Potion. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any blue reagent type and any three of the yellow reagents."	Divine Power	Empty Message Scroll
725	"
The White Potion of Luck Boost temporarily boosts your luck just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type and three of any blue reagents."	Luck Boost	Empty Message Scroll
726	"
The White Potion of Fire Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to fire inflicted damage.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type, plus one of any blue reagent type and three of the yellow reagents."	Fire Resistance	Empty Message Scroll
727	"
The White Potion of Air Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to air inflicted damage.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents."	Air Resistance	Empty Message Scroll
728	"
The White Potion of Water Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to water inflicted damage.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type, plus three of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents."	Water Resistance	Empty Message Scroll
729	"
The White Potion of Earth Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to earth inflicted damage.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type, plus one of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents."	Earth Resistance	Empty Message Scroll
730	"
The White Potion of Mind Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to damage inflicted by Mind Magic.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type, plus three of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents."	Mind Resistance	Empty Message Scroll
731	"
The White Potion of Body Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to damage inflicted by Body Magic.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and three of the yellow reagents."	Body Resistance	Empty Message Scroll
732	"I Dadeross, certify, that the individuals who bear this letter with my seal, do indeed carry with them the Axe of Balthazar. Treat these fine warriors as family and give them all possible honors.

Dadeross,
Journeyman Merchant of Alvar
Axe Master of the Ravage Roaming Herd"		Scroll for Minotaur Promo
733	"My Brethren,

I have decided to find the Sarcophagus of Korbu in the hopes that Korbu himself may be able to provide the answers I seek.  The trip will be long and dangerous, for the denizens of Ravenshore, and the Dragon Hunters of Garrote Gorge will not receive any of our kind with a warm welcome. I will seek out what shelter I can on my way to Ravage Roaming.  I leave these notes behind to document my journey. If I am not heard from again, perhaps you will find Korbu.

Ciatlen Venitius"		Vampire Promo Clue (6)
734	"My Brethren,

As I had feared, Ravenshore is not a friendly place to our kind.  I was chased from the city limits by a torch wielding crowd.  It was like something from one of the stories told to frighten us when we first undergo the hunger, meant to scare us away from populated areas.  The dire wolves of this area did not seem to mind my presence, perhaps they recognize a kindred spirit. Tomorrow I will try to make it to Garrote Gorge, hopefully I will find shelter there.

Ciatlen Venitius"		Vampire Promo Clue (2)
735	"My Brethren,

Garrote Gorge is a battlefield.  The Dragon slaying knights of Charles Quixote and the Flights of Deftclaw Redreaver battle daily, with no end to their conflict in site. This battle seems senseless.  At least we have reached an uneasy relationship with the Necromancers of Shadowspire upon which we feed. Perhaps Korbu was indeed mad, for at least we do not battle to feed. Or is it right that another race give up their lives to sustain us?  I wonder.  Tomorrow I leave for Ravage Roaming.  None of our kind has been to this region since Korbu left us.  I do not know what I will find. Answers? Korbu himself?

Ciatlen Venitius"		Vampire Promo Clue (5)
736	"My Brethren,

Here in the Crypt of Korbu I have found nothing but tragedy.  Korbu has perished.  Perhaps he no longer had the will to prey upon others to sustain himself.  Guardian Nagas have infested the crypt, and reaching Korbu was indeed difficult.  Instead of answers, I find myself confronted with only more questions.  Why would Korbu accept his own death, instead of taking the life of another for sustenance. The greatest of our kind is nothing but a pile of bones and dust.  I will bring these remains back to the elders, perhaps they will find the answers that I cannot.

Ciatlen Venitius"		Vampire Promo Clue (7)
737	"My Brethren,

I fed today upon the body of a young knight. For the first time since I experienced the hunger, I felt something as I drained this woman of her life. I have no way to describe this sensation, only that it was very unpleasant. My mind wanders, and I think more and more of the reasons why Korbu left us so long ago. We experience eternal life, but at the cost of the lives of others.  

There was a terrible wind storm from the north today.  I saw trees caught in the storm high about the northern range of the Dragon's Teeth.  I have never seen such a storm.   I will continue back through Ravenshore and then onto home.

Ciatlen Venitius"		Vampire Promo Clue (5)
738	"Brethren,

I approached the outskirts of Ravenshore today.  As I did, a strange glow emanated from the center of the town.  I could feel dark magics in the air.  After considering my reception the last time through this area, I have decided to head north through Alvar, and then east to the Ironsand Desert. From there I will return home to Shadowspire.  As I fed again this night, I felt that same feeling of dread as when I fed on the young knight.  I still see the terror in her eyes. Perhaps Korbu was right?  Is it wrong that we take lives to live?

Ciatlen Venitius"		Vampire Promo Clue (2)
739	"I was burned today.  The cover here in Alvar is few and far between.  The sun has scarred my face and hands. If only I had thought to ask the elders for a Nightshade Amulet to protect me.  Then my journey surely would have been a swift one. 

I have not fed since Ravenshore as I do not wish to experience the sense of dread I picked up in Garrote Gorge. Perhaps I will feed upon the Trolls of Ironsand when I reach there. I know that the Cyclops in that region are non-hostile to our kind since we arranged for a Alvarian merchant caravan to be waylaid near their camp.  I will rest in their Larder and then return home.  

Ciatlen"		Vampire Promo Clue (3)
740	"I am through.  Korbu was right.  It is not right for us to take the lives of others to sustain ourselves.  The feeling I have been experiencing must be remorse.  This must be what Korbu felt as well.  I will not feed again.  I will lay down as Korbu did and perish here in the Cyclops Larder.  It is my hope that Korbu will be forgotten and that his remains will be left here. I will secret them away, as I believe that he would not wish to experience life again.  Ancient legends of our people speak of a curse that was placed upon us.  It is my belief that we are indeed cursed.  Once you have felt remorse the only desire you have is for forgiveness.  For me this is now only a dream.

Ciatlen"		Vampire Promo Clue (4)
741	"Guildmaster Fellmoon,

I am sending this to inform you of disturbing events on the Dagger Wound Islands. My caravan is trapped here, but that is the least of it. Soon after we arrived, a great volcano rose from the nearby sea. It pushed before it a great wave which washed away the bridges connecting the islands to one another and to the mainland. Day and night the island is pelted by burning rocks hurled from the volcano. On top of all, the Regnans have taken this as opportunity to raid. I tell you, it is chaos!

Caravan Leader Dadeross"		Dadeross' Letter to Fellmoon
742	"Dear Hunter,

Recent matters require me to request your cooperation and assistance. Specifically, I would like you to gift my guild immediate use of your boats for an indefinite period of time. Oh, I imagine this will impact your business, so let me make, as a gift in return, assurances of the continuing safety of your lovely daughter, Irabelle. I understand she is a pupil at the Alvar Academy. It would be a pity if her studies were interrupted by misfortune, no? I'm sure we agree, so I thank you in advance for your generosity.

Elgar Fellmoon"		Blackmail Letter
743	"…and now we make ready to win what we have so long sought. The improbable wasp nest lies in the canyon just north of our campsite and the prize within will be ours. I'm sure we'll succeed where so many others have failed. Not to say they were not stout enough, but rather that they were ill-prepared.

It meant several months of careful collecting, but we have with us the magic we will need to maneuver in the hive. All the gold we spent gathering the scrolls will be well worth the investment. Money will not be a problem once we..."		Journal Scrap
744	"
Located in what is currently the city of Ravenshore, the Vault of Time is a curious relic of the Amberly Dynasty, the monarchy which ruled the areas along the southern coast of Jadame during the period 342-621 R.E. The last Amberlian emperor, Thorn III (589-633 R.E.) knowing the empire was crumbling, sealed his regalia away in the specially constructed vault to safeguard them for a day when he or his kin could return the empire to its former glory.

Now that the Amberlians have definitely passed into history, Thorn's vault has become the focus of many treasure hunters. The magics sealing the vault have proven potent against any attempt to penetrate it. To this day, Thorn's treasure remains locked away from the eyes of all."		Hint for vault of time
745	"STONE PORTALS

These strange devices appear as stone squares set in the ground, and have short pillars at each corner. It seems they were built by the temple builders as a means of transportation between the islands. Magic is clearly involved. They are powered by enchanted onyx stones. I found one myself near the temple, and I know Onefang has another. Each portal requires its own stone for power.

ABANDONED TEMPLE

I have uncovered an engraving which seems to suggest that the abandoned temple at the northwest island connects underwater to the island to the northeast. If this is so, the builders possessed very advanced construction techniques."		In frederick talimere's inventory
746	"Arion Hunter,

We will be watching you to guarantee your compliance with Zog's requests.  Any deviation from his orders, and the Pack Master will lead the Dire Wolves into your hidden sanctuary and drive you out into the sea. 

Remember, your opinions are not requested, only your compliance.  Deliver the reports on the Merchants of Alvar to the Dread Pirate Stanley as ordered and your family will be returned to you.  Eventually.  

Zog
"		Empty Message Scroll
747	"ANSWER SECTION

Riddles, page 56: 1) Fifteen Ducks!  2) The Troll's Grandmother  3) Prison

Riddles, page 57: 1) Egg  2) The chicken was upside-down. 3) Wasp Jelly on a Cracker

Riddles, page 58: 1) Ogre Feet 2) Inside 3) They made soup."		escaton riddle clue
748	"
Plan: Use old siege door system to drain lair.

Lever Order: A, B, C, E, G, D, J, C, E, F, D, I, C, Lowest

Reset: A

Tritons: Watch out!"		minotaur lair clue
749	"
Finally! After years of failure, we've had a successful test fire of the Cannonball of Dominion. Not only did the cannon not explode, the shot produced the expected, wide area of fury destruction. Now, the challenge is to develop a suitable ship mounting for the experimental cannon located outside the fortress. Once we've accomplished this, we will forever rule the seas! Our ships will be capable of sinking entire fleets with a single shot from just one of these new cannons!"		regnan fleet cannonball clue
750	"
It is inevitable; the temple is lost to us. Never did we think that our own creations would turn against us. Nor did we think they could so handily bring about our annihilation. Only I and my assistant, Khsth'thck, are all that remain of the Relic Wardens. This note is for any of the Keepers of the True Vision who come to reclaim the temple.

Khsth'thck and I have already secured the holy idol. Remember, it is the sixth plate, not the fourteenth! We lost Warden Rsh'Dhx when that mistake was made last. I only pray the defenses will hold until you arrive.

Faithfully yours,

Yvwch'vhs xhl'brck, High Nestmaster"		Old Scroll
751	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
752	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
753	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
754	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
755	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
756	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
757	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
758	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
759	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
760	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
761	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
762	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
763	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
764	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
765	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
766	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
767	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
768	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
769	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
770	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
771	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
772			
773			
774			
775			
776			
777			
778			
779			
780			Ritual of Dark Containment
781			
			
			
			
			
