Stats Descriptions	Description
Might	"Might is the statistic that represents a character's overall strength, and his or her ability to put that strength where it counts.  Characters with a high Might statistic do more damage in combat."
Intellect	"Intellect represents a character's ability to reason and understand complex, abstract concepts. Maximum spell points for Necromancers and Dark Elves are based on Intellect."
Personality	"Personality represents both a character's strength of will and personal charm.  Maximum spell points for Clerics, Vampires and Minotaurs are based on Personality."
Endurance	Endurance is a measure of a character's physical toughness and durability. A high Endurance gives a character more hit points.
Accuracy	Accuracy represents a character's precision and hand-eye coordination.  A high Accuracy will allow a character to hit monsters more frequently in combat.
Speed	Speed is a measure of how quick a character is.  A high Speed statistic will increase a character's armor class and the rate with which the character recovers from attacks.
Luck	"Luck has a subtle influence throughout the game, but is most visible in the ability of a character to resist magical attacks and avoid taking (as much) damage from traps."
Hit Points	"Hit Points indicate how much damage your character can sustain before falling unconscious or dying.  A character is unconscious at 0 Hit Points or less, and dies when Hit Points reach -10  All Hit Points are restored after 8 hours of uninterrupted rest."
Armor Class	"Armor Class is a measure of how difficult it is for a monster to hit a character.  The higher the Armor Class, the better the chance of avoiding an attack."
Spell Points	Spell Points are needed to cast spells.  Every spell has a Spell Point cost that is deducted from this statistic when it's cast.  Spell Points are restored after 8 hours of uninterrupted rest.
Condition	"Condition shows the worst ""effect"" your character is suffering, such as poisoned, diseased, or dead.  Many conditions seriously hurt your character's ability to fight or perform other actions, and should be cured as soon as possible."
Quick Spell	"The Quick Spell is the spell that will be cast when you use the ""s"" key to cast a spell.  You can set the quick spell by opening your spell book (""c"" key), clicking on the spell you want to set, then clicking on the set spell tab at the left-bottom corner of the spell book."
Age	"Age shows the current age of your character.  The first number is the temporary age number, and the second is your real age.  Certain monsters and magical effects can raise your temporary age above your real age."
Level	Level is a measure of the training your character has gone through.  A high level contributes to hit points and spell points.
Experience	"Experience is a simple indicator of your character's overall understanding of the world.  With enough experience points (and a little gold), you can train your characters in training grounds throughout the land to increase their level and gain skill points to spend on skills."
Attack Bonus	"Attack Bonus is the sum of all factors (skills, spells, Accuracy, etc.) that influence your character's chance to hit monsters with an equipped weapon.  "
Attack Damage	"Attack Damage is the sum of all factors (Might, spells, certain weapon skills at expert or master, etc.) that influence the damage your character does with an equipped weapon."
Shoot Bonus	"Shoot Bonus is the sum of all factors (skill, spells, Accuracy, etc.) that influence your character's chance to hit monsters with an equipped bow."
Shoot Damage	"Shoot Damage is the sum of all factors (spells, weapon bonuses, etc.) that influence the damage your character does with an equipped bow."
Fire	"Fire Resistance represents your character's ability to minimize damage taken from fire based attacks.  Though a high resistance can greatly reduce fire damage, it does not make your character immune."
Air	"Air Resistance represents your character's ability to minimize damage taken from air based attacks.  Though a high resistance can greatly reduce air damage, it does not make your character immune."
Water	"Water Resistance represents your character's ability to minimize damage taken from water based attacks.  Though a high resistance can greatly reduce water damage, it does not make your character immune."
Earth	"Earth Resistance represents your character's ability to minimize damage taken from earth based attacks.  Though a high resistance can greatly reduce earth damage, it does not make your character immune."
Mind	"Mind Resistance represents your character's ability to minimize damage taken from mind based attacks.  Though a high resistance can greatly reduce mind damage, it does not make your character immune."
Body	"Body Resistance represents your character's ability to minimize damage taken from body based attacks.  Though a high resistance can greatly reduce body damage, it does not make your character immune."
Skill Points	Skill Points are awarded whenever your character trains for a new level.  You can spend Skill Points on your skills at any time.
