Class	Descriptions	Notes
Knight	"The Knight class is the workhorse fighting class.  Knights start with the largest selection of weapons and armor, and may ultimately use any type of weapon or armor, Being the toughest warriors of the classes, Knights begin with the greatest number of hit points and get the most number of hit points when they advance in level.  Knights may never learn spells, nor may they ever learn (or need) the Meditation skill."	Knight
Cavalier	"The Cavalier class is the first promotion of the Knight.  Cavaliers may use any type of weapon or armor, but they may not learn spells.  Cavaliers enjoy the benefit of an extra two hit points per level, and can be promoted once more to either Champion or Black Knight status with another two hit point per level gain.  "	Knight
Champion	"The Champion class is the second and last promotion of knights who follow the path of Light.  Champions may use any type of weapon or armor, but they may not learn spells.  Champions enjoy the benefit of an extra four hit points per level.  Champions can grandmaster in the Plate, Shield, Sword, and Spear skills."	Knight
Black Knight	"The Black Knight is the second and last promotion of Knights who follow the path of Darkness.  Black Knights may use any type of weapon or armor, but they may not learn spells.  Black knights enjoy the benefit of an extra four hit points per level.  Black Knights may grandmaster in the Plate, Shield Sword, and Spear skills."	Knight
Thief	"The Thief class concentrates less on fighting and more on utility skills, such as disarming traps and stealing.  Although they aren't as good with weapons and armor as Knights, Thieves are still better fighters than the semi and full spell using classes.  Thieves may eventually use spells from the Elemental schools, but they will never be very good at them."	Thief
Rogue	The Rogue class is the first promotion from Thief.  Rogues get an additional 2 hit points per level.  They also gain the ability to cast spells and one spell point per level to do it with.	Thief
Spy	"The Spy class is the final promotion for thieves following the path of Light.  Spies gain two more hit points per level and can grandmaster in Leather, Dagger, Disarm Traps, and Steal."	Thief
Assassin	"The Assassin class is the final promotion for thieves following the path of Darkness.  Assassins gain two more hit points per level and can grandmaster in Leather, Dagger, Disarm Traps, and Steal."	Thief
Monk	"Monks concentrate on unarmed combat.  Monks are second only to Knights in combat, and they have access to spells from the Clerical schools (Spirit, Mind, and Body) of magic when they are promoted to Initiate."	Monk
Initiate	"Initiate is the first promotion of the Monk class.  Initiates gain an additional hit point and spell point per level, as well as the ability to cast spells from the Clerical schools of magic."	Monk
Master	"Master is the final promotion for Monks following the path of Light. Monks gain 2 more hit points per level and may become experts in their magical skills.  Monks may grandmaster in Dodge, Unarmed combat, Staff, Learning, and Body Building."	Monk
Ninja	"Ninja is the final promotion for Monks following the path of Darkness. Ninjas gain 2 more hit points per level may grandmaster in Dodge, Unarmed combat, Staff, Learning, and Body Building."	Monk
Paladin	"A cross between Knight and Cleric, Paladins perform both roles well, but not as well as the more focused classes they borrow from.  Like Knights, Paladins can learn to use any type of weapon or armor, although they don’t have as many choices to begin with.  Paladins also begin with the Spirit realm of magic, and can also learn to use the Clerical Mind and Body realms.  Their skill in the greater realms of Light and Dark is sharply limited, and they may never learn any of the Elemental realms."	Paladin
Crusader	"Crusader is the first Paladin promotion.  Crusaders can learn to use any type of weapon or armor, and they can learn the Clerical magics of Spirit, Mind, and Body.  Crusaders enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level, and can be promoted to Heroes or Villains, gaining an additional hit point and spell point per level."	Paladin
Hero	"Hero is the second and last Paladin promotion for Paladins following the path of Light.  Hero gain an extra hit point and spell point per level. Heroes may grandmaster in the Repair, Mace, and Shield skills.  Heroes also gain the ability to learn spells from the realm of Light magic."	Paladin
Villain	"Villain is the second and last Paladin promotion for Paladins following the path of Darkness.  Villains gain an extra hit point and spell point per level. Villains may grandmaster in the Repair, Mace, and Shield skills.  Villains also gain the ability to learn spells from the realm of Light magic."	Paladin
Archer	"Like Paladins, the Archer is a hybrid of the Knight and Sorcerer classes.  Archers may learn to use all weapons except the mace, (specializing in the bow, of course) but they may never learn the shield or plate armor skills.  They are compensated with the ability to learn magic from the elemental schools.  The greater realms of Light and Dark can be learned on their second promotions, but they will never be very skilled in them.  "	Archer
Warrior Mage	"Warrior Mage is the first Archer promotion.  Warrior Mages gain an extra hit point and spell point per level, and (more importantly) may achieve expert ranking in their magical skills."	Archer
Master Archer	"Master Archer is the second and last Archer promotion for Archers following the path of Light.  Master Archers may grandmaster in Chain armor, Bow, and Perception, and enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level.  Master Archers also gain the ability to learn spells from the realm of Light magic."	Archer
Sniper	"Sniper is the second and last Archer promotion for Archers following the path of Darkness.  Snipers may grandmaster in Chain armor, Bow, and Perception, and enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level.  Snipers also gain the ability to learn spells from the realm of Dark magic."	Archer
Ranger	"Rangers are a cross between Knights and Druids.  Of all the classes, Rangers may learn the broadest range of skills, but can master few of them.  Rangers may eventually learn both the Elemental and Clerical realms of magic, leaving only the greater realms of Light and Dark out of their reach.  Rangers may also learn to use most weapons, armor, and secondary skills, with only Plate and Mace beyond their reach."	Ranger
Hunter	"The Hunter is the first class promotion for the Ranger.  Hunters gain 2 extra spell points and 1 extra hit point per level, and may achieve expert ranking in all of their spell skills.  They also gain access to all of their spell skills at this point."	Ranger
Ranger Lord	"Ranger Lord is the final promotion available to Rangers following the path of Light.  Ranger Lords gain an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may achieve expert ranking in their spell skills.  Ranger Lords may grandmaster in Axe and Identify Monster."	Ranger
Bounty Hunter	"Bounty Hunter is the final promotion available to Rangers following the path of Darkness.  Bounty Hunters gain an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may achieve expert ranking in their spell skills.  Bounty Hunters may grandmaster in Axe and Identify Monster."	Ranger
Cleric	"Clerics are adventuring, spell casting holy men.  A Cleric is a mediocre fighter but an excellent spell caster, with spells concentrating on healing and defensive themes.  Clerics and Sorcerers are the only two classes that can grandmaster in the Mirrored Path of the Light and the Dark, and the awesome spells these realms of magic offer.  They are, unfortunately, rather limited in their weapons, with mace, staff, and bow being their only choices.  Defense is a little better with plate and dodge skill being the only kind forbidden them.  "	Cleric
Priest	"Priest is the first Cleric Promotion.  They enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level, and can be promoted to Priest of the Light or Priest of the Dark to gain another hit point and spell point per level."	Cleric
Priest of the Light	"Priest of the Light is the second and last Cleric promotion for Clerics following the path of Light.  Priests of the Light can learn and grandmaster in spells from the realm of Light. Priests of the Light gain an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may grandmaster in all of their spell skills and the Merchant skill."	Cleric
Priest of the Dark	"Priest of the Dark is the second and last Cleric promotion for Clerics following the path of Darkness.  Priests of the Dark can learn and grandmaster in spells from the realm of Dark. Priests of the Dark gain an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may grandmaster in all of their spell skills and the Merchant skill."	Cleric
Druid	"Druids are a hybrid of the Sorcerer and Cleric classes.  They make poor fighters (better only than the lowly Sorcerer) and have relatively few hit points.  On the plus side, Druids can use both Sorcerer and Clerical magic.  Druids may not learn Light and Dark magic, and they can only use the staff, dagger, mace, and bow as weapons while wearing only leather and shield as armor.  Most secondary skills are open to the Druid.    "	Druid
Great Druid	"Great Druids are the first Druid promotion.  Great Druids enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and spell point per level, and may be promoted to Arch Druid or Warlock, gaining another hit point and spell point per level.  This promotion permits Druids to learn their spell skills to Master rank."	Druid
Arch Druid	"Arch Druids are the second and last Druid promotion for Druids following the path of Light.  Arch Druids get another hit point and spell point per level, and may grandmaster in the Alchemy and Meditation skills. "	Druid
Warlock	"Warlocks are the second and last Druid promotion for Druids following the path of Dark.  Warlocks get another hit point and spell point per level, and may grandmaster in the Alchemy and Meditation skills. "	Druid
Sorcerer	"Students of the realm of Elemental magic, Sorcerers concentrate on offensive and utilitarian magic.  Sorcerers are downright rotten fighters barely able to learn to use the dagger, the staff, and the bow effectively.  They are allowed to use only leather armor, cannot use shield, and have the lowest hit points of all the classes.  With that aside, Sorcerers can wield mighty offensive spells and have access to the Mirrored Path of the Light and the Dark, from which come the best spells in the lands.  "	Sorcerer
Wizard	"Wizards are the first Sorcerer promotion.  Wizards enjoy the benefit of an extra hit point and extra spell point per level, and they can be promoted to Arch Mage or Lich, gaining another hit point and spell point per level."	Sorcerer
Arch Mage	"Arch Mages is the second and last Sorcerer promotion for Sorcerers following the path of Light.  Upon their promotions, Arch Mages gain two additional spell points per level, and access to the realm of Light magic.  Arch Mages can grandmaster in all their spell skills, plus Identify Monster and Identify Item."	Sorcerer
Lich	"Lich is the second and last Sorcerer promotion for Sorcerers following the path of Dark.  This status is achieved through a vile process wherein the Lich-to-be stores his organs in a magical jar that he must guard.  Upon their ""ascension"", Liches gain two additional spell points per level, and access to the realm of Dark magic.  Liches can grandmaster in all their spell skills, plus Identify Monster and Identify Item.  They are harmed by exposure to light but will constantly generate their own spell points."	Sorcerer
