#	Greeting 1	Greeting 2	Notes	Owner
1	"I am Lord Markham, the benefactor providing the castle that is the prize of the this contest."	"Nice to see you again, how are you doing on the hunt?"		Markham
2	"Greetings, my name is Thomas.  I am the judge of the contest."	Have you collected everything on the list yet?		Judge
3	"Welcome to Emerald Island, my name is Margaret and I'll be your docent for your stay here."	What would you like to know?		Docent
4	"Hello, my name is Ailyssa.  I'm the Bard in charge of overseeing the entertainment on Emerald Island for the duration of the Scavenger Hunt."	"Hello again, how are you doing?"		Bard
5	"Hi there!  I'm Sally.  I don't usually see people this far from town, are you lost?"	Still out here?  Town's back a ways to the south.		Sally
6	"Pssst…  Come here, I have an offer for you."	"Ah, you've returned, no doubt to listen to my proposal."		Malwick
7	"Hello there, stranger <wink>.  Fine weather we're having, no?"	"Did you need something, stranger?  <whisper> Get away from me, are you trying to get caught on purpose?!"		Malwick
8	"Hello there, friend.  May I have a word with you?"	Hello again… friend.		Sal
9	I don't believe we have anything to talk about.	I don't believe we have anything to talk about.		Malwick
10	"Hail and well met.  I'm Brent Filiant, a contestant in Lord Markham's scavenger hunt."	"Greetings again, friends."		Brent
11	"Hello, I'm Carolyn.  I handle the guild memberships for the Fire and Air Guilds here on the island."	"Hello, I'm Carolyn.  I handle the guild memberships for the Fire and Air Guilds here on the island."		Elemental Guild Membership
12	I'm Roger and I sell guild memberships for the Body and Spirit Guilds on Emerald Island.	I'm Roger and I sell guild memberships for the Body and Spirit Guilds on Emerald Island.		Self Guild Membership
13	"Ahoy matey!  I be William Darvees, captain of this vessel."	"Aye, good to see you again, mates!"		
14	"Hello, my name is Donna, I live here with my daughter Sally."	"Hello again, what can I do for you?"		Donna
15	"Hi, I'm Grant.  Tor allows me to live in the back of his shop as long as I stay his apprentice."	"Hi again, did you need something?"		Grant
16	"Greetings, I'm Mia.  Do you need something?"	Yes?  What do you want?		Mia
17	Halt!  You do not have authorization to proceed.  We request that you refrain from disturbing the students while they work.	Halt!  You do not have authorization to proceed.  We request that you refrain from disturbing the students while they work.		School of Sorcery Guard
18	"Welcome to Emerald Island.  I will be your guide during your stay here.  From time to time I will appear to tell you about something you're about to see to help you understand your New World.  If you tire of my messages (I won't be offended if you do), just click on my portrait to talk to me then click on 'Tour Off' to silence me.  "	"Welcome to Emerald Island.  I will be your guide during your stay here.  From time to time I will appear to tell you about something you're about to see to help you understand your New World.  If you tire of my messages (I won't be offended if you do), just click on my portrait to talk to me then click on 'Tour Off' to silence me.  "	Welcome Sign	Docent cheat
19	"The shop you are near is the Blacksmith shop.  The blacksmith only sells weapons, but this one sells many different kinds of weapons, and some of them have magical properties.  You can also sell weapons here, but you won't get a good deal until you have a higher merchant skill.  To enter, just click on the front door."	"The shop you are near is the Blacksmith shop.  The blacksmith only sells weapons, but this one sells many different kinds of weapons, and some of them have magical properties.  You can also sell weapons here, but you won't get a good deal until you have a higher merchant skill.  To enter, just click on the front door."	Blacksmith	Docent cheat
20	"The door to the west leads to the local Tavern.  The tavern is a safe place to sleep at night, and to buy food so you can sleep outdoors.  You can often meet interesting people in taverns, or catch the local gossip if you're looking for something to do.  To enter the tavern, just click on the front door."	"The door to the west leads to the local Tavern.  The tavern is a safe place to sleep at night, and to buy food so you can sleep outdoors.  You can often meet interesting people in taverns, or catch the local gossip if you're looking for something to do.  To enter the tavern, just click on the front door."	Tavern	Docent cheat
21	"This shop is the armor shop.  The armorer only sells helms, shields, and armor, but will buy nearly anything you can wear, if you don't want to make a separate stop at the magic shop.  Remember that a character needs skill in leather, chain or plate armor to be able to wear that kind of armor, or shield skill to use a shield."	"This shop is the armor shop.  The armorer only sells helms, shields, and armor, but will buy nearly anything you can wear, if you don't want to make a separate stop at the magic shop.  Remember that a character needs skill in leather, chain or plate armor to be able to wear that kind of armor, or shield skill to use a shield."	Armor Shop	Docent cheat
22	"This building is Carolyn Weather's private residence.  Carolyn makes a living by brokering magic guild memberships to aspiring wizards and other spell casters.  She will be happy to sell membership in the local Air and Fire guilds for a small fee.  You don't have to buy membership in a guild if you don't want to, but remember that you must be a guild member to buy spells and learn skills at a magic guild."	"This building is Carolyn Weather's private residence.  Carolyn makes a living by brokering magic guild memberships to aspiring wizards and other spell casters.  She will be happy to sell membership in the local Air and Fire guilds for a small fee.  You don't have to buy membership in a guild if you don't want to, but remember that you must be a guild member to buy spells and learn skills at a magic guild."	Carolyn's place	Docent cheat
23	"This building is another private residence.  Roger, the owner of the house, sells membership in the Spirit and Body magic guilds here.  The price is low, but you must pay if you intend to take advantage of the guild services, including spell purchases and skill teaching.  By the way, if you're getting tired of my messages, you can stop them by clicking on my portrait to talk to me then clicking on the 'Tour Off' topic."	"This building is another private residence.  Roger, the owner of the house, sells membership in the Spirit and Body magic guilds here.  The price is low, but you must pay if you intend to take advantage of the guild services, including spell purchases and skill teaching.  By the way, if you're getting tired of my messages, you can stop them by clicking on my portrait to talk to me then clicking on the 'Tour Off' topic."	Roger's house	Docent cheat
24	"This door leads to the training center of Emerald Island.  If you have enough experience points (gained from killing monsters and completing quests) you can come here to increase your characters' levels.  When you gain a level, you'll also get some skill points to spend on improving your skills.  You can only spend skill points on skills that your character knows--to learn new skills, try visiting the businesses around town and see if they offer lessons in anything you're interested in."	"This door leads to the training center of Emerald Island.  If you have enough experience points (gained from killing monsters and completing quests) you can come here to increase your characters' levels.  When you gain a level, you'll also get some skill points to spend on improving your skills.  You can only spend skill points on skills that your character knows--to learn new skills, try visiting the businesses around town and see if they offer lessons in anything you're interested in."	Training grounds	Docent cheat
25	"This tent is where the town's healer is located.  You can pay for any healing your characters may need here--even raise them from the dead.  You can tell if your characters are injured by looking at the green bar to the left of their portrait--the lower it is, the more injured they are.  Note that it isn't necessary to get healed at the healer--any ordinary damage and all spell points will be healed merely for resting overnight.  "	"This tent is where the town's healer is located.  You can pay for any healing your characters may need here--even raise them from the dead.  You can tell if your characters are injured by looking at the green bar to the left of their portrait--the lower it is, the more injured they are.  Note that it isn't necessary to get healed at the healer--any ordinary damage and all spell points will be healed merely for resting overnight.  "	Healer's tent	Docent cheat
26	"This well has a magical benefit--it bestows a powerful fire resistance spell on the drinker.  To have a character drink from the well, just select the character you want to have drink, then click on the well. There are many wells like this one in the game--you can look in your autonotes book under the ""Fountains"" tab for a list of all wells you've tried drinking from during the course of the game.The effects of this particular well last until you rest, but remember that different wells may have completely different effects."	"This well has a magical benefit--it bestows a powerful fire resistance spell on the drinker.  To have a character drink from the well, just select the character you want to have drink, then click on the well. There are many wells like this one in the game--you can look in your autonotes book under the ""Fountains"" tab for a list of all wells you've tried drinking from during the course of the game.The effects of this particular well last until you rest, but remember that different wells may have completely different effects."	Well of Fire Resistance	Docent cheat
27	"You are standing in front of the house in which Lord Markham has set up his temporary headquarters on Emerald Island. Lord Markham is the benefactor behind the scavenger hunt you are no doubt eager to win.  The contest judge is also inside, and he is the one you need to talk to in order to turn in hunt items you have found."	"You are standing in front of the house in which Lord Markham has set up his temporary headquarters on Emerald Island. Lord Markham is the benefactor behind the scavenger hunt you are no doubt eager to win.  The contest judge is also inside, and he is the one you need to talk to in order to turn in hunt items you have found."	Markham's headquarters	Docent cheat
28	"The Spirit Guild can be found through the door to the east.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become a Spirit Guild member, you must first visit Roger in his house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn a Spirit spell must have the Spirit magic skill!"	"The Spirit Guild can be found through the door to the east.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become a Spirit Guild member, you must first visit Roger in his house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn a Spirit spell must have the Spirit magic skill!"	Spirit Guild	Docent cheat
29	"The Air Guild is on the other side of this door.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become an Air Guild member, you must first visit Carolyn in her house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn an Air spell must have the Air magic skill!"	"The Air Guild is on the other side of this door.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become an Air Guild member, you must first visit Carolyn in her house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn an Air spell must have the Air magic skill!"	Air Guild	Docent cheat
30	"This building is where you will find the town Alchemist.  The alchemist sells potions and potions ingredients, and is also a place where your characters may learn the Alchemy skill.  You must have alchemy skill to make even the most basic of potions, and you can do that by opening your character's inventory, picking up a potion ingredient, and right clicking it on an empty potion bottle.  You can use a similar procedure to mix two potions together.  Alchemists know that certain mixtures produce certain results, but it's a trade secret.  You'll have to figure it out for yourself.  Be warned that some mixtures are explosive!"	"This building is where you will find the town Alchemist.  The alchemist sells potions and potions ingredients, and is also a place where your characters may learn the Alchemy skill.  You must have alchemy skill to make even the most basic of potions, and you can do that by opening your character's inventory, picking up a potion ingredient, and right clicking it on an empty potion bottle.  You can use a similar procedure to mix two potions together.  Alchemists know that certain mixtures produce certain results, but it's a trade secret.  You'll have to figure it out for yourself.  Be warned that some mixtures are explosive!"	Alchemist	Docent cheat
31	"This door leads to the Body Guild.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become a Body Guild member, you must first visit Roger in his house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn a Body spell must have the Body magic skill!"	"This door leads to the Body Guild.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become a Body Guild member, you must first visit Roger in his house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn a Body spell must have the Body magic skill!"	Body Guild	Docent cheat
32	You have found the Magic shop.  The magic shop is every true adventurer's favorite store.  Here you can buy and sell all magic items except for magic weapons and armor.  	You have found the Magic shop.  The magic shop is every true adventurer's favorite store.  Here you can buy and sell all magic items except for magic weapons and armor.  	Magic Shop	Docent cheat
33	"This building is where you may find the Fire Guild.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become a Fire Guild member, you must first visit Carolyn in her house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn a Fire spell must have the Fire magic skill!"	"This building is where you may find the Fire Guild.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become a Fire Guild member, you must first visit Carolyn in her house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn a Fire spell must have the Fire magic skill!"	Fire Guild	Docent cheat
34	Be careful!  You are about to enter an area of the island that is infested with Dragonflies.  They are quite dangerous!  Lord Markham is NOT responsible if you are injured or even killed venturing into this part of the island.  You have been warned!	Be careful!  You are about to enter an area of the island that is infested with Dragonflies.  They are quite dangerous!  Lord Markham is NOT responsible if you are injured or even killed venturing into this part of the island.  You have been warned!	Dragonflies	Docent cheat
35	"Um…It isn't wise to enter this cave.  A terrible dragon lives within, and few who enter leave alive.  If you really want to enter, just click on the back wall of the cave…"	"Um…It isn't wise to enter this cave.  A terrible dragon lives within, and few who enter leave alive.  If you really want to enter, just click on the back wall of the cave…"	Fire Dragon Cave	Docent cheat
36	"This is the entrance to the old Temple of the Moon.  It is infested with small vermin that can give a nasty bite, but it's not too dangerous.  It's possible there are items for the scavenger hunt within, so you should consider searching here at some point.  To enter, just click on the back wall of this cave."	"This is the entrance to the old Temple of the Moon.  It is infested with small vermin that can give a nasty bite, but it's not too dangerous.  It's possible there are items for the scavenger hunt within, so you should consider searching here at some point.  To enter, just click on the back wall of this cave."	Temple of the Moon	Docent cheat
37	"I’m Bill Lasker, and I am the Master Thief.  [Bill makes a sweeping gesture with one arm, taking in the whole of the sewers.] I am undisputed ruler of all I survey, and I hear of everything that happens in my mighty kingdom.  I am at your service."	"Welcome back.  Is your visit for business, or conversation?  I’m happy to supply either."	Normal	William Lasker
38	"I’m Bill Lasker, and I am the Master Thief.  I rule this underground kingdom, and am responsible for the welfare of the thieves who live down here.  You have been killing my subjects.  I would strike against you, but I fear your allies would destroy me.  So I will deal with you, but my prices will be higher.  What do you want?"	"[spits] Hello, Thief killer.  What do you want?"	Killed Thieves	William Lasker
39	"Greetings Rogues, how may I be of service?"	"Greetings Rogues, how may I be of service?"	Spy	William Lasker
40	"Greetings.  I am Seknit Undershadow, Master Assassin for the Enforcement Arm of the Necromancer’s Guild.  I am pleased to meet you.  Would you like a cup of tea?"	"Ah, welcome my friends.  How are you doing today?  You really should try my tea this time."	Tea no (normal)	Seknit Undershadow
41	"Ah, welcome my friends.  I hope you are doing well.  How about a spot of tea today?"	"Ah, welcome my friends.  I hope you are doing well.  How about a spot of tea today?"	Tea yes	Seknit Undershadow
42	"Hello again, fellow Assassins.  My tea and company are always yours."	"Hello again, fellow Assassins.  My tea and company are always yours."	Assassin	Seknit Undershadow
43	"Hail.  I am Sir Charles Quixote.  I am the humble champion of the people, and I am at thy service."	"Well met, my friends.  How goes the struggle against the forces of evil?"	Normal	Sir Charles Quixote
44	Why do we dally?  Even now that monster could be laying waste to the countryside!  Tally Ho!	Why do we dally?  Even now that monster could be laying waste to the countryside!  Tally Ho!	Crusader Quest	Sir Charles Quixote
45	Why do we delay rescuing Alice?  Who knows what plans the fiend has for this innocent girl?  Let us replace talk with action and rescue the poor girl at once!	Why do we delay rescuing Alice?  Who knows what plans the fiend has for this innocent girl?  Let us replace talk with action and rescue the poor girl at once!	Hero Quest	Sir Charles Quixote
46	Salutations Heroes!  I am certain thou hast much to accomplish before we dally about.	Salutations Heroes!  I am certain thou hast much to accomplish before we dally about.	Hero	Sir Charles Quixote
47	Hello?  You don't look like William's normal people.	I just want to go home.	Good	Alice Hargreaves
48	Hello?  I don't think I've seen you before.	Now what do you want?	Evil	Alice Hargreaves
49	"Good day.  William Setag, Villain Extraordinare, at your service.  Good to make your acquaintance."	A pleasure to see you again.  How may I assist you?	Normal	William Setag
50	Villains!  Welcome!  Too rarely do my villainous friends pay me visits.	Villains!  Welcome!  Too rarely do my villainous friends pay me visits.	Villain	William Setag
51	"Hello.  I am Bartholomew Hume, Master of this monastery.  Is there something I can help you with?"	"Hello again, do you need anything?"	Normal	Bartholomew Hume
52	"Fellow Masters!  It is good to see you, how may I do you service?"	"Greetings again, Masters.  How can Bartholomew aid you?"	Master	Bartholomew Hume
53	"Hello, my pupils.  I see you have found the proper tomb."	"Hello, my pupils.  I see you have found the proper tomb."	Dungeon event greeting	Bartholomew Hume
54	"I am Stephan Sand, Master of the…aggressive side of the disciplined life.  Once I was a monk, now I am something greater."	Hello again.  Tell me what it is you desire.	Normal	Stephan Sand
55	"Now that you've achieved the exhalted status of Ninja, I have nothing further to give you.  I hope my teachings take you far."	"Now that you've achieved the exaulted status of Ninja, I have nothing further to give you.  I hope my teachings take you far."	Ninja	Stephan Sand
56	"How are you doing?  [Lawrence bows deeply) I am Master Mark, champion bowman.  I've won the Annual Avlee Tourney for the past 4 years!  But enough of me, how about yourselves?  "	We meet again.  Need something?	Normal	Lawrence Mark
57	"Welcome my friends!  That's a fine weapon you have there, but don't think for a moment you'll best me in this year's Tourney--I'm still the Master!"	"Welcome my friends!  That's a fine weapon you have there, but don't think for a moment you'll best me in this year's Tourney--I'm still the Master!"	Master Archer	Lawrence Mark
58	"Welcome.  [Mr. Snick barely speaks above a whisper.  There is a small, white scar at the base of his throat] Are you here to be trained?"	"You have a reason... [Snick wheezes] for troubling me, I hope?"	Normal	Steagal Snick
59	"Students…[Mr. Snick rasps the word, then smiles] no longer.  I am proud to have helped you on your way.  Use your new weapon…[wheeze] wisely."	"Students…[Mr. Snick rasps the word, then smiles] no longer.  I am proud to have helped you on your way.  Use your new weapon…[wheeze] wisely."	Sniper	Steagal Snick
60	"Well met!  [Leda draws her blade and chops smartly at the wind] Are you here to fight, or here to learn?  Either way [her flourish ends in a knight's salute] I'm happy to oblige!"	"Hail, and well met!  [Leda grins and shakes her head] I love saying that!  So.  What can I do for you today?"	Normal	Leda Rowan
61	"Hail, champions!  Your courage and skill has all the tongues in the Kingdom wagging!  I am very proud of you!"	"Hail, champions!  Your courage and skill has all the tongues in the Kingdom wagging!  I am very proud of you!"	Champion	Leda Rowan
62	"So!  You wish to learn to fight?  Well, you've found the right man.  For those of you who are Knights, anyway.  If you're not a knight, you still benefit from my teachings, but not as much."	"Back for more teaching, kid?"	Normal	Frederick Og
63	"[Frederick rises hastily to his feet] None shall pass! [he blinks and rubs his eyes] Oh.  It's you.  Sorry, I thought you were someone else.  How goes the villainy?"	"[Frederick rises hastily to his feet] None shall pass! [he blinks and rubs his eyes] Oh.  It's you.  Sorry, I thought you were someone else.  How goes the villainy?"	Black Knight	Frederick Og
64	"[Lysander doffs his hat and bows deeply] Salutations!  I am Lysander Sweet, and I am in charge of promoting Hunters to Rangers.  I have a task in mind if I think you're up to it.  It should prove quite educational!"	"The Lords of Harmondale return!  I am honored.  What is your pleasure, my lords?"	Normal	Lysander Sweet
65	"Your good works have served the forest well.  And, I can see, the experience has served you well in turn.  May you continue to reap the rewards of your good deeds, my friends!"	"Your good works have served the forest well.  And, I can see, the experience has served you well in turn.  May you continue to reap the rewards of your good deeds, my friends!"	Ranger Lord	Lysander Sweet
66	"Hmmm. Make it quick!  You look like time wasters to me.  There's nothing worse.  You know, when I was a boy, my elders didn't tolerate no one lolligaggin around.  No slackers, neither.  [Ebednezer squints and leans closer to you] You're not one of them, are you?  Slackers? 'Cause I don't talk to slackers."	Time!  Everyone wastin' my time! [Ebednezer mutters something incoherent under his breath for awhile] You're still here?  	Normal	Ebednezer Sour
67	"Bounty Hunters.  [Ebednezer smiles slowly and evilly]  Now THERE'S a job!  Yes sir.  Get things done righteo quick, I'll venture. Heh."	"Bounty Hunters.  [Ebednezer smiles slowly and evilly]  Now THERE'S a job!  Yes sir.  Get things done righteo quick, I'll say. Heh."	Bounty Hunter	Ebednezer Sour
68	"[The little king bows] Welcome to my realm, mortals!  Few attain the door, and for that, I commend thee.  But now that you stand at the threshold of Faerie, know that few return that dare to enter."	"Mortals!  You have found a way in, but can you remember the way out?  [the king laughs] Twisty the way, and treacherous the path!  Stay, instead, and feast with us!  The centuries pass like lazy Sunday afternoons!"	Normal	Faerie King
69	"Ah, travellers. [the tree speaks VERY slowly] How.  Are.  You.  Today?   The trees are quite disturbed.  Angry.  The Heart of the Wood has been stolen by Walkers.  The Walkers will pay in blood until the Heart is returned."	"Are you the same Walkers I just talked to?  You all look alike to me.  But the talking is good just same.  Do you have time?  Let.  Me.  Name.  My.  Ancestors.  [The tree sighs happily, and begins]  Leaf-point.  Who.  Spawned. Spotted Bark.  Who.  Spawned.  Three Branches.  Who spawned...[Blah, blah blah]"	Normal	Oldest Tree
70	The trees speak of Walkers who want to return our Heart.  I hope they do.  Walkers take so much.	"Are you the same Walkers I just talked to?  You all look alike to me.  But the talking is good just same.  Do you have time?  Let.  Me.  Name.  My.  Ancestors.  [The tree sighs happily, and begins]  Leaf-point.  Who.  Spawned. Spotted Bark.  Who.  Spawned.  Three Branches.  Who spawned...[Blah, blah blah]"	On the Ranger Lord quest	Oldest Tree
71	"Ohhhhh…It's the Walkers from the South.  I remember you!  You returned the Heart.  The trees are very happy, and promise not to kill any more walkers.  Come and talk to me any time."	"Ohhhhh…It's the Walkers from the South.  I remember you!  You returned the Heart.  The trees are very happy, and promise not to kill any more walkers.  Come and talk to me any time."	Finished the Heart quest	Oldest Tree
72	"[High Priest Devine smiles and inclines her head] Sunlight Reveal, my lords.  How may I help you?"	"[High Priest Devine smiles and inclines her head] Sunlight Reveal, my lords.  How may I help you?"	Normal	Rebecca Devine
73	"Sunlight Reveal, my fellow Priests.  I am so proud to have you as members of our faith!"	"Sunlight Reveal, my fellow Priests.  I am always delighted to see you!"	Priest of Light	Rebecca Devine
74	"[High Priest Falk bows and clasps his hands together] Shadow Conceal, Lords.  How may I be of service?"	"[High Priest Falk bows and clasps his hands together] Shadow Conceal, Lords.  How may I be of service?"	Normal	Daedalus Falk
75	"Shadow Conceal, Brethren.  Congratulations on your promotion to Priests of the Dark."	"Shadow Conceal, Brethren.  My time is always yours."	Priest of Dark	Daedalus Falk
76	"Thomas Grey, at your service!  [The Wizard bows quickly and spreads his palms, smiling] "	"[Thomas Grey offers a peculiar half smile and folds his arms] I am still at your service, my lords!"	Normal	Thomas Grey
77	My fellow Archmages.  Rare is the individual who can achieve this status.  Congratulations!	"I am honored to be graced with your presence, my lords."	Archmage	Thomas Grey
78	"[The Lich stares at you awhile before speaking] Who dares disturb me?  Earthly Lords?  Hmmph.  Your status matters not, once death's door has been passed."	Why do you insist on bothering me?  [The Lich's eyes flare a hellish red for a moment] 	Normal	Halfgild Wynac
79	Death…[The Lich's voice is hoarse and quavery] isn't so bad when you've been through it once or twice.  Life was always more painful to me.  Are you pleased with your new status?	Why do you insist on bothering me?  [The Lich's eyes flare a hellish red for a moment] 	Lich	Halfgild Wynac
80	"Pleasant weather we're having, isn't it?  We are blessed to live in this climate, and have such mild Gods to appease.  Have you offered recently?"	"Fortune be your friend, lords.  Do you seek my advice today?"	Normal	Anthony Green
81	I was pleased to offer the Ceremony of Ascension to you after your brave efforts to lay the dead to rest.  The world breathes easier from your help.	"Fortune be your friend, lords.  Do you seek my advice today?"	Arch Druid	Anthony Green
82	"Foreign Lords!  How interesting!  My familiar said she could smell the earth of the lands across the sea on you.  My name is Tor Anwyn, leader of the Warlocks of Nighon, though not King of Nighon.  That title belongs to another.  Pleased to meet you."	"A delight and a pleasure, lords.  Have you come for business or conversation?"	Normal	Tor Anwyn
83	Congratulations on your promotions to Warlock!  Few can pass the test and find themselves an appropriate familiar.  I'm pleased you were successful.	"A delight and a pleasure, lords.  Have you come for business or conversation?"	Warlock	Tor Anwyn
84	"I am yours to command, master."	"I am yours to command, master."	Possible Golem explanation	Golem
85	"Ah, the new lords! Please excuse the condition of the castle--it's been awhile since anyone has taken proper care of it.  I would have greeted you indoors, but for the Goblins.  A small tribe of them has moved inside.  I've asked them to leave, but they won't listen to me.  They were quite rude, as a matter of fact.  Perhaps you could...talk to them?  I'll be in the On the House Tavern here in Harmondale should you manage to 'convince' them to leave."	"There's still goblins in the castle, my lords.  I hope you don't mind if I wait here while you convince them to leave.  One way or the other."	Kill the goblins	Butler
86	"You rang, my lords?"	"You rang, my lords?"	Goblins are killed	Butler
87	"So.  Lords of Harmondale, eh?  I am King Hothfarr IX, Lord of Stone City.  What do you want?"	Back again?  Don't have much time for [heh!] Contestants.  State your case and move on.  My court is busy.	Normal	Dwarf King
88	"Welcome, Harmondale!  Stone city is at your disposal."	"Welcome, Harmondale!  Stone city is at your disposal."	Rescued all the dwarves	Dwarf King
89	Everybody run!  The Stonesnakes are upon… uh… what?	Thanks for rescuing me.  I am at your service.	Normal	Dwarf Engineer
90	Ahhhhh!  Help!  They're coming  fo… me?  What happened?  Who are you?	Thanks for rescuing me.  I owe you my life.	Normal	Dwarf Prisoner
91	[Lady Ellen curtsies gracefully]  I am Ellen Rockway.  I speak for Erathia on matters of state.  I will be staying here in your court for the duration of your reign.	"Yes, Lords?  What would you like to discuss?"	Normal	Ellen Rockway
92	"Greetings.  I am Alain Hani, Ambassador from Avlee.  I speak for my country, and my word is Avlee's bond.  I will always be available for any business you wish to conduct."	"Avlee is listening, my Lords."	Normal	Alain Hani
93	"Lord Markham tells me you are the new lords of Harmondale.  Welcome to the peerage.  Now, why do you request an audience of me?"	I am very busy.  This had better not be a social visit.	Normal	Queen Catherine
94	"Ah, Harmondale.  Before we conduct business, I would like to say I recently noticed you returned the wrong prisoner from Avlee.  Such a remarkable likeness!  I should execute you, but the war is over, and that would be bad form.  Just remember that your treachery has been...noted."	I am very busy.  This had better not be a social visit.	Betrayed me	Queen Catherine
95	"So, Harmondale has new lords.  Again.  Well, [King Parson looks at his scribe] we better write their names down lest history blinks and misses them, eh?  Haw haw ha!  [Ahem] Yes.  Well, you had a reason for visiting me, right?"	"Harmondale again, hmmm?  Make it quick--my patience is already wearing thin."	Normal	ElfKing
96	"You again?  You know, I was just asking my generals why the attack on Fort Riverstride was such a disaster when someone on my staff noticed the traps on the map YOU gave us were in the wrong places!  [the King chuckles, smiling] Imagine my generals' relief when we all realized that it wasn't incompetence that killed 74 elves, but treachery! Hahahahaha! [King Parson slaps his knee, then abruptly stops laughing and stares at you.]

I would execute the lot of you, but the war is over. In the interests of harmony, you can live.  For now."	"Harmondale again, hmmm?  Make it quick--my patience is already wearing thin."	Betrayed me	ElfKing
97	"My lords, I have an urgent message from the Erathian Ambassador for you.  I am told it has details of an important event that is happening RIGHT NOW, and that you should read it immediately.  Here is the letter."	"My lords, I have an urgent message from the Erathian Ambassador for you.  I am told it has details of an important event that is happening RIGHT NOW, and that you should read it immediately.  Here is the letter."	Artifact	Messenger
98	"How are you doing, my lords?  I am Judge Grey.  I have the unusual job of arbitrating disputes between warring nations.  The position has it's rewards, but you'll never hear the people you're helping thank you.  I always know I'm doing the right thing when both sides are angry with me at once."	"Welcome back, my lords.  Erathia and Avlee are at each other's throats again.  Feeling the heat yet?"	Normal	Arbiter
99	"Ah, greetings!  My lords, I am Ambassador Wright from Bracada.  You know, the wizards on Erathia's southern border.  You've become very important persons!  Since Judge Grey died in your lands, you must choose another Arbiter to help settle the dispute between Erathia and Avlee.  

I formally invite you to visit Bracada and meet Judge Fairweather, who we strongly recommend for the post.  I don't mean to be pushy, but I'm sure you understand your choice will affect future relations between our two governments..."	"My lords, it is always a pleasure to see you.  I must once again urge you to consider our uh, I mean Judge Fairweather for the important post of Arbiter.  Take your time making the decision, but do be quick about it, eh?

Remember, all you have to do is visit Judge Fairweather in Bracada and choose him for the job; then take him to the Arbiter's house here in Harmondale.  I am sure he will put a swift end to this nasty war."	Normal	Wizard Ambassador
100	"A pleasure to meet you, my lords.  My name is Ambassador Scale, and I represent Deyja, the land of the Necromancers northwest of Erathia.  Now, I know what you're thinking--Necromancy!  Yuck!  Isn't that death magic?  Well, it IS, but we merely pursue knowledge for it's own sake; rather noble if you ask me.  We're not so bad.  You should speak with some of the fellows--they really know how to party.  [The Ambassador forces a smile] Ha ha ha!

I invite you to visit Deyja.  When Judge Grey died, you became the ones who must choose his successor.  We have someone in mind who will encourage our enemies to...um...bring this terrible war to an end.  Yes.  I urge you to choose Judge Sleen.  

It would mean so much to us, and we could do so much for you!  Think about it, but don't think too long!"	"My lords.  [Ambassador Scale wrings his hands and smiles in a most unsettling fashion]  You are still trying to make a decision, I see.  You must understand your choice is VERY important to us.  

Perhaps you need directions?  Judge Sleen is in Deyja, which is the country northwest of Erathia.  You must do is visit him and tell him you're choosing him for the job; then take him to the Arbiter's house here in Harmondale.  He will take care of everything from there."	Normal	Necro Ambassador
101	"The new lords of Harmondale, I presume.  I am Judge Sleen.  Let me be frank--my sympathies lie with Deyja and the Necromancers.  We want you to choose me for the job of Arbiter for the war between Erathia and Avlee.  Since both of those countries are the enemies of Deyja, I will be a fair judge.  However, choosing to be the ally of Deyja means CHOOSING WHAT OTHERS CALL ""DARKNESS"".

This darkness business is pure rot.  Necromancy is nothing but the study death and what happens with the spirit after death.  Sure, the results can be a little grisly, but so is making sausage and the practice of law.  And nobody would say those jobs don't have their value.

Choose me and be our ally.  Because if you cannot prove your friendship through this simple act, what else can you be but our enemy?  Remember, though, that once you choose me, you cannot later change your mind.  Your choice is permanent."	"Still considering your choice, I see.  Let me remind you of what's at stake:  [The Ambassador holds up a finger]

The length of the war--The longer it lasts, the better off we'll all be.  Erathia and Avlee will be weaker, and unable to interfere in our affairs.

You will be allying with us.  There are things we can teach you...

Most importantly, YOU WILL CHOOSE THE PATH OF DARKNESS.  This choice cannot be withdrawn."	Normal	Evil Arbiter
102	"Thank you for choosing me.  You will not regret your choice, I assure you.  The only thing that remains is for you to return to Harmondale with me, and bring me to the Judge Grey's old house.  I'll take it from there."	"We need to go to Judge Grey's old house in Harmondale.  Only then can I start my new job and begin to ""sort out this mess"".  [Heh!]"	Chosen	Evil Arbiter
103	"You have made the right choice, my lords.  The leader of Deyja, Archibald Ironfist, would like to speak with you.  From the Deyja Moors, enter the Hall of the Pit and make your way to the Pit.  Archibald awaits you in Castle Gloaming in the Pit.  Try not to keep him waiting."	"I am happy to see you again, my lords.  Deyja is very pleased with the way things have turned out.  Is there anything I can do for you?"	Installed	Evil Arbiter
104	"Hello.  I've been expecting you.  I am Judge Fairweather.  I think it's important you understand that I DO work for Bracada, but I am neutral on the Erathia - Avlee war.  Obviously, we want you to hire me as the Arbiter over this conflict, and I will be a fair judge.  We need you to understand, however, that choosing me as the Arbiter will be CHOOSING THE PATH OF LIGHT.

It is the right choice.  I will put an end to this destructive war as quickly as possible, and minimize deaths.  All you have to do is make a decision.

Please choose the path of light, and reject evil.  Be our ally.  Just remember that whatever choice you make will be a permanent one."	"No decision yet?  Why do you waver in the face of what is clearly the moral choice?  Think about it:

Choosing me puts an end to the war quickly.  Many people will have you to thank for saving their lives.

You will be allying with Bracada, and rejecting Deyja.  All the Light has to offer will be yours to learn.

Most importantly, you will be CHOOSING THE PATH OF LIGHT.  This choice is permanent, and cannot be withdrawn."	Normal	Good Arbiter
105	"Thank the heavens for guiding you right!  This is the best decision you have ever made, even if you don't believe it now.  The only thing left to do is for you to return to Harmondale with me, and bring me to Judge Grey's old house.  I'll see that matters are handled correctly."	We need to go to Judge Grey's old house in Harmondale.  Only then can I start my new job and put this horrible war to an end.	Chosen	Good Arbiter
106	"You have made the wise choice, my lords.  Gavin Magnus, leader of the Wizards, would like to speak with you.  Go to the Bracada Desert-- the teleporter to Celeste will function now, and use it to enter Celeste.  Gavin awaits you in Castle Lambent.  Time is precious; don't waste it dallying around."	"I am happy to see you again, my lords.  Bracada is very pleased with the way things have turned out.  Is there anything I can do for you?"	Installed	Good Arbiter
107	"New Lords from Harmondale, I see.  Well, I am pleased to meet you at last.  I am sure the relationship between our two governments will be a long and mutually beneficial one.  You've made the right choice in allying with us.  There is much we need to talk about, but my advisors first insist that you walk the Wizards' Path before our relationship can progress.

I know this test seems silly, but I assure its purpose is not.  You can take the test whenever you feel ready.  And if you fail today, you can always come back and try it another day."	"Always good to see you, my friends.  Do you feel up to completing my little test?"	Normal	Gavin Magnus
108	"Welcome back, my friends.  My advisors are anxious to speak with you.  "	"Welcome back, my friends.  My advisors are anxious to speak with you.  "	Finished Proving Ground	Gavin Magnus
109	"I am very lucky to have friends such as you.  We've come far, and only have a little further to go.  My most unusual advisors have great plans…plans that require the aid of you, my steadfast allies.  I'm confident you're up to it."	"I am very lucky to have friends such as you.  We've come far, and only have a little further to go.  My most unusual advisors have great plans…plans that require the aid of you, my steadfast allies.  I'm confident you're up to it."	Finished all Good quests	Gavin Magnus
110	"[Resurectra smiles, and curtseys] Lords.  I am Resurectra, chief advisor to King Magnus.  We are pleased you chose Judge Fairweather as the arbiter in the Erathia-Avlee conflict.  It's a sign of your good intentions.  However, if we are to have further dealings, you must first complete the King's test.  We do not have time for the the uncommitted or the faint of heart.

After you are done with his test, return to me, and we will talk.  Rest assured you will find your alliance with us profitable."	"Hello again, Lords.  You haven't completed the King's test yet.  I will not deal with you until you have finished his test.  Return to me when you are done."	No Proving Grounds	Resurectra
111	"I am glad you passed the King's test.  It shows you are dedicated to the Path of Light.  Now we should get down to business.  My fellow advisors and I have some work for you if you're willing.  You will, of course, be rewarded.  And always remember, that whatever we ask of you, we are always moving toward a noble goal, one you will be proud to have been a part of."	"Always a pleasure to see you, Lords."	Normal	Resurectra
112	"Once again, thanks for completing the key for us.  We are in your debt for that act alone.  I'm sure we will be even more in your debt in the near future."	"Always a pleasure to see you, Lords."	Completed Temple of Dark Mission	Resurectra
113	"Dark ones!  You have no idea what dreams you've discarded in favor of petty power.  Begone from here, and trouble us no more."	[Sigh] Why have you returned?  I want nothing to do with you.	Party Evil	Resurectra
114	"Now that you have completed the Test, I too, have a request of you.  Unlike my friends, mine has little to do with advancing toward the Goal, but it is important nonetheless."	"It's good to see you again, lords.  I hope all is well with you and your realm."	Normal	Crag Hack
115	"I just want to say again that you've done a good thing.  Not only have we kept our promise to Queen Catherine, but we have rid the world of another monster.  Thank you."	"It's good to see you again, lords.  I hope all is well with you and your realm."	Completed Vampire Mission	Crag Hack
116	"What do you want, evil ones?  My axe itches for a chance at your throats."	I have nothing to say to you!	Party Evil	Crag Hack
117	"I'm pleased to hear you passed the test.  We must attack our enemies before they get too strong.  I have a plan I think will do lasting damage to their noxious brotherhood.  It's dangerous but bold, and cowards such as they will never expect it."	"Ah, welcome back my lords.  I hope all is well."	Normal	Sir Caneghem
118	Glad you're here.  You'll be happy to know we've ordered a golem to bury the empty soul jars somewhere and forget where it put them.  They'll never be seen again.	"Ah, welcome back my lords.  I hope all is well."	Completed Soul Jars	Sir Caneghem
119	"Oh, good, a visit from our enemies.  That always makes me so happy!  Come back anytime, so our guards can have another try at your lives, knaves!"	Our guards missed you again?  I'll have to talk to them about that.	Party Evil	Sir Caneghem
120	"Like my friends, I have a task for you as well, but now is not the time.  Finish their work first, then I will tell you about my mission."	I'm happy you're still alive and working for the Light.  Come and see me when you've finished my friend's tasks.	Not finished with good	Robert the Wise
121	"You've finished their missions.  Good.  Our conflict with the Necromancers is rapidly coming to a conclusion.  I have a dangerous, but critical mission for you.  The future of your…er, our world depends on your success."	"I'm glad you're back, friends.  "	Normal	Robert the Wise
122	"Pleased to make your acquaintance.  My name is Kastore, chief advisor to Lord Ironfist.  [Kastore makes a sweeping gesture toward the other advisors] My associates and I agree that you've shown excellent taste so far over your choice of Judge Sleen in the Erathia affair.  I think future relations between Deyja and Harmondale will be quite rosy and profitable for all involved.

However, I never trust someone I just met.  Before we can do business, you'll have to prove that you're...our kind of people.  Lord Ironfist has a test he likes to put new Necromancer recruits through.  If you can pass it, return to me and we'll talk more."	"Although there are many things we could do for one another, you must first pass Lord Ironfist's test.  [Kastore snorts derisively] Because if you can't even pass THAT sorry test, what good are you to me, let alone yourselves?"	Not finished with Breeding Pit	Kastore
123	"So you passed the test!  Good!  Now we can get down to business.  You'll find that working for us…[Kastore shakes his head, and starts over] No.  You'll find that working with us will advance our mutual goals and interests very quickly.  We have big plans--plans big enough to include aggressive people like yourselves.  As time passes, we will reveal our biggest plans to you."	"[Kastore smiles] Welcome back, allies.  I trust you are well?"	Normal	Kastore
124	"I would like to take this moment to thank you, again, for all the work you have done for us.  The time fast approaches that our greatest plans will come to fruition, and we will all be elevated to the highest status!  Stick by us awhile longer, and your rewards will be greater that you have ever dreamed!"	"[Kastore smiles] Welcome back, allies.  I trust you are well?"	Completed all Evil	Kastore
125	"Lords of Harmondale, is it? [Kastore spits on the ground] What are you doing here?  Better return home and watch your border!  Something dark may cross it during the night…"	What now?!? Wasn't it hard enough to get here the first time?  Do you think we have anything at all to say to each other?  Begone!	Party Good	Kastore
126	"Hello!  I am Maximus.  Good to have you on our side.  I'm glad you survived the Test.  I'm against wasting good talent on that test, but my associates insist.  [sigh]  What can you do?"	"Glad to have you back, allies."	Normal	Maximus
127	"I really can't thank you enough for bringing those jars back to us.  The Necromancers have been clamoring for their delivery for months!  This will improve morale around here 100%!  Once again, thanks!"	"Glad to have you back, allies."	Completed Jars	Maximus
128	"I have nothing to say to you, cowards!  One day, you and your entire town will be working in the mines for us!"	"I have nothing to say to you, cowards!  One day, you and your entire town will be working in the mines for us!"	Party Good	Maximus
129	"I knew you would pass that Test!  It really isn't that hard, if you are properly determined.  You just have to harden your heart and do what must be done.  The mission I have in mind for you will require that same resolve.  After you passed that test, I'm sure you're up to it!"	"Welcome, allies.  Always good to have you back."	Normal	Dark Shade
130	"Excellent work at Clanker's Laboratory!  I know I already congratulated you on a job well done, but I just can't get over how well executed that entire plan was!  The boys in the lab tell me they've already got most of old Clanker's body back together again, and they've animated the reassembled corpse.  They've got him on Soul Jar research, but he's not quite as clever as he used to be, I'm told.  Oh well, at least we don't need to fear him turning on us, eh?"	"Welcome, allies.  Always good to have you back."	Completed Clanker	Dark Shade
131	"Honestly, didn't you people get the hint when all our minions were attacking you?  We don't want you down here!  And it doesn't do you any good blowing up our zombies--we just reanimate them!  "	"Honestly, didn't you people get the hint when all our minions were attacking you?  We don't want you down here!  And it doesn't do you any good blowing up our zombies--we just reanimate them!  "	Party Good	Dark Shade
132	"I, too, have a task for you in mind, but it will have to wait until you are done with my associates' missions.  Return to me once you have finished their tasks."	Glad you're still on our side!  Come and see me when you're done with my associates' missions.	Not finished with good	Tolberti
133	"Now that you've finished my associate's tasks, I am ready to give you a much more dangerous, but very critical mission.  Our plans hinge on your success.  I know I can count on you.

Oh, I almost forgot to mention!  Archibald is no longer in charge.  He left in a huff after we disagreed with how we should proceed with our plans.  He's moved into Clanker's laboratory now, and taken some of the less...motivated necromancers with him.  No loss there.  Kastore is King of the Pit, now."	"Welcome, friends."	Normal	Tolberti
134	"[Archibald smiles and rubs his hands together slowly] Our new allies from Harmondale!  Good to meet you in person at last.  I want to say right now that you chose the right side.  Anyone who has ever dealt with me knows I am a fair man to work for, and I reward loyalty well.  Stand by me, and you will go farther than you ever dreamed! 

While I am grateful that you chose us, and have complete confidence in your abilities and loyalties, my advisors do not.  That's ok, because they're here to question my judgement.  They believe that you don't have the stomach to work for us, and have devised a little test of your...determination.  I know it's annoying, but until you pass the test, they refuse to have anything to do with you.  I'm sure you understand."	"How goes your preparations for the test?  You can take it anytime you want…just walk on down to the Breeding Pit and jump in.  [Archibald smiles, his face half hidden in shadow] It's always open."	Normal	Archibald
135	"Hello, my friends…you are still my friends, aren't you?  My ""advisors"", my ""lieutenants"" [Archibald spits out the words], have the Pit, and their dreams of conquest.  I have come to realize they did not need me, nor did they want to study our art.  

They want a world where there are no Kings, no loyalty, and no honor.  Just them and their slaves.  Well, they can have it!  After the soul jars were stolen, my lieutenants just shrugged, as though it was wagon wheels, or chickens that went missing, not the keys to immortality!  We were so close to devising a way to keep the body from decay after the Ritual was performed!  Now this--a setback that will cost decades.

So, we have moved here--thanks to you--to continue our studies.  For what it's worth, I have renounced my claim to the throne of Enroth.  I don't think anyone believes me, but that shouldn't matter.  This island is quite secure, and we have fixed the breech that let you infiltrate it in the first place. "	"Good to see you again, my friends.  You are welcome to visit anytime."	In Clanker's Lab	Archibald
136	"Find what you're looking for?  Don't worry--I'm not too angry that you invaded.  Most of my minions will regenerate, one way or the other.  There's not even much treasure left.

[Sigh] Well, if you're here to fight us in the name of the Light, don't bother.  I've given up the conquest business.  My former allies [Archibald spits on the ground] have abandoned our great achievements in the arts of Necromancy, and now seek merely to conquer the world.  I have little doubt they will succeed.  It won't go well for you and your masters if they do.

[Archibald looks at you more closely, now] Then again, perhaps they won't.  You have the smell of fate about you, as though you are destined for great things.  Perhaps you will stop them.  But smart money still bets against you."	"Back for more target practice?  You know, if you wait long enough, my people will regenerate.  Bigger challenge then."	"Clanker's, Party Good"	Archibald
137	"Welcome back, allies.  My advisors are eager to speak with you."	"Welcome back, allies.  My advisors are eager to speak with you."	Completed Breeding Pit	Archibald
138	"Excuse me, but visitors are not allowed here in Fort Riverstride.  I'm afraid I have to ask you to leave.  Any attempt to go further into the fort will be treated as hostile action, and will be dealt with as such."	"Excuse me, but visitors are not allowed here in Fort Riverstride.  I'm afraid I have to ask you to leave.  Any attempt to go further into the fort will be treated as hostile action, and will be dealt with as such."	Fort Riverstride Guard	
139	"This Watchtower preserves the borders of Deyja.  Visitors are not allowed in here, so you will have to leave.  If you attempt to enter further into the tower, you will be killed without hesitation."	"This Watchtower preserves the borders of Deyja.  Visitors are not allowed in here, so you will have to leave.  If you attempt to enter further into the tower, you will be killed without hesitation."	Watchtower 6 Guard	
140	Halt!  You have no business past this point.  Only those who have proved their purity may enter the holy sanctum. 	Halt!  You have no business past this point.  Only those who have proved their purity may enter the holy sanctum. 	Temple of Light Guard	
141	"What have we here?  Did you honestly think you could tread safely amongst the power of the shadows?  It would not be safe for you, and you are not allowed past this point."	"What have we here?  Did you honestly think you could tread safely amongst the power of the shadows?  It would not be safe for you, and you are not allowed past this point."	Temple of Dark Guard	
142	"Halt!  You do not have authorization to proceed this way.  If you are looking for Queen Catherine's throne room, it is in the center of the castle behind the main staircase."	"Halt!  You do not have authorization to proceed this way.  If you are looking for Queen Catherine's throne room, it is in the center of the castle behind the main staircase."	Castle Gryphonheart Guard	
143	"Halt!  Visitors aren't permitted in this section of the castle.  If you are looking for King Parson's throne room, take the lift down and follow the left corridor."	"Halt!  Visitors aren't permitted in this section of the castle.  If you are looking for King Parson's throne room, take the lift down and follow the left corridor."	Castle Navan Guard	
144	"Halt!  Access to these areas is denied on orders from Gavin Magnus himself.  If you are looking for his throne room, go north from the entrance as far as you can, then go west as far as you can, and his throne room is to the north."	"Halt!  Access to these areas is denied on orders from Gavin Magnus himself.  If you are looking for his throne room, go north from the entrance as far as you can, then go west as far as you can, and his throne room is to the north."	Castle Lambent Guard	
145	"Halt!  You don't have permission to proceed through this area.  If you are looking for the throne room, you must go north from the entrance to the main room.  Then follow the small west passage to the waiting ship.  Use the ship's rudder to maneuver downstream and then exit the ship and proceed in the doorway."	"Halt!  You don't have permission to proceed through this area.  If you are looking for the throne room, you must go north from the entrance to the main room.  Then follow the small west passage to the waiting ship.  Use the ship's rudder to maneuver downstream and then exit the ship and proceed in the doorway."	Castle Gloaming Guard	
146	Greetings!  My name is Eric Swarrel-- I run the information desk here in the School of Sorcery.	"Hello again, what can I do for you?"	Eric-- School of Sorcery Receptionist	
147	Thanks for rescuing me!  Please take me back to Erathia as soon as you can.	Are we almost back to Erathia?  I have information for Queen Catherine that cannot wait.	Loren Steel	
148	"Excellent decision to assist King Parson.  Just get me to Queen Catherine, and I'll handle the rest."	"Excellent decision to assist King Parson.  Just get me to Queen Catherine, and I'll handle the rest."	Fake Loren Steel	
149	"Halt!  Lord Markham doesn't want visitors wandering around his house.  If you came to speak with him, he's in his chamber directly north from the entrance."	"Halt!  Lord Markham doesn't want visitors wandering around his house.  If you came to speak with him, he's in his chamber directly north from the entrance."	Markham's House Guard	
150	"My lords, I have been dispatched by the ambassadors from Erathia and Avlee to inform you of Judge Grey's untimely death.  We believe it was a heart attack, and there is no reason to suspect foul play.  

However, they wish to speak to you at once, and urge you to return to your castle.  They have declared a truce until a successor can be found for Judge Grey."	"My lords, I have been dispatched by the ambassadors from Erathia and Avlee to inform you of Judge Grey's untimely death.  We believe it was a heart attack, and there is no reason to suspect foul play.  

However, they wish to speak to you at once, and urge you to return to your castle.  They have declared a truce until a successor can be found for Judge Grey."		Messenger
151	"Oh, the new lords of Harmondale!  Just the persons I needed to see! "	"Oh, the new lords of Harmondale!  Just the persons I needed to see! "		Withern
152	Thanks for returning the Lantern of Light.  Ceremonies can continue normally at the temple!	Thanks for returning the Lantern of Light.  Ceremonies can continue normally at the temple!		Withern
153	"Ah, the Lords of Harmondale. Perhaps you can be of assistance to me?"	"Ah, the Lords of Harmondale. Perhaps you can be of assistance to me?"		Haldar
154	My thanks for returning Haldar's remains!	My thanks for returning Haldar's remains!		Haldar
155	"Lords of Harmondale, I need your help!"	"Lords of Harmondale, I need your help!"		Davrick
156	Thanks for returning my signet ring and restoring my business!	Thanks for returning my signet ring and restoring my business!		Davrick
157	"Greetings, you must be the Lords of Harmondale.  I am a collector of the finest historical items, perhaps you can deliver something to me?"	"Greetings, you must be the Lords of Harmondale.  I am a collector of the finest historical items, perhaps you can deliver something to me?"		Norbert
158	Thank you for returning the Parson's Quill sent by Lord Markham.  You help has made my collection complete!	Thank you for returning the Parson's Quill sent by Lord Markham.  You help has made my collection complete!		Norbert
159	"Greetings!  You're the new Lords of Harmondale, if I'm not mistaken.  Do you have a moment to assist me?"	"Hello again, Lords."		Johann
160	Thank you so much for returning the Faerie Pipes to me!  I would have never been able to brave the Hall under the Hill myself.	Thank you so much for returning the Faerie Pipes to me!  I would have never been able to brave the Hall under the Hill myself.		Johann
161	"My…'lords,' I have a message for you from Niles Stantley, an associate of Mr. Malwick, whom I'm sure you've already met.  I'd advise you to read this message and act on it with all due speed… Mr. Stantley does so admire punctuality."	"I bring you news from Harmondale.  It seems members of the Mercenary Guild have found it quite the easy pickings, and have begun looting the city and the castle there."		Messenger
162	"Greetings, my friends.  I've come to collect on the deal you made with my associate, Mr. Malwick.  I trust you remember him from Emerald Isle?  "	"Hello again.  I hope, for your sake, you're complying with my request."		Niles Stantley
163	"Hello, my lords.  Do you have a moment to assist an old dwarf in need?"	Please assist us; Stone City would be in your debt.		Spark Burnkindle
164	Thank you for helping us by getting rid of those nasty Troglodytes!	Thank you for helping us by getting rid of those nasty Troglodytes!		Spark Burnkindle
165	"Good day, my lords."	"Good day, my lords."		Seth Drakkson
166	"Good work on those griffins, my lords.  It is always a pleasure to see you."	"Good work on those griffins, my lords.  It is always a pleasure to see you."		Seth Drakkson
167	I have nothing to say to you.  Go away.	I have nothing to say to you.  Go away.		Seth Drakkson
168	Your lack of punctuality has cost yourselves and your town grievously.  I think you may find your bank account somewhat… pinched.  Consider this an important lesson learned.  Good day.	Your lack of punctuality has cost yourselves and your town grievously.  I think you may find your bank account somewhat… pinched.  Consider this an important lesson learned.  Good day.		Niles Stantley
169	Growf!	Growf!		Baby Dragon
170	"Greetings, my lords.  May I have a moment of your time?"	"Good to see you again, my lords."		Darron Temper
171	"Well met, lords.  Do you have a moment to share?"	"A pleasure to see you again, lords."		Gary Zimm
172	"Thanks for getting me out of that cage.  I thought I had managed to escape when I was able to steal a key from the guard, but it didn't open my cage!  Whatever it's used for, I'm sure you'll find it more useful than I will. 

I need to get back to my kingdom right away; who knows what sort of horrible things have happened while I've been away.  Excuse me for my abruptness, but I want to breathe fresh air again.  You've done both Erathia and Enroth a great service, and I'm in your debt."	"How wonderful to see you again.  Thanks for helping me escape the Kreegan.  If you should find yourselves in Enroth, come by and visit Castle Ironfist."		Roland
173	May I have a moment of your time?	May I have a moment of your time?		Statuette First
174	Excellent work; my associates are quite pleased.	Excellent work; my associates are quite pleased.		Statuette Finished
175	"Greetings, lords.  Welcome to my humble home."	"Greetings again, lords.  May your stay here be a pleasant one."		Painting First
176	Thank you for your assistance in completing my collection.  You have my gratitude forever!	Thank you for your assistance in completing my collection.  You have my gratitude forever!		Painting Finished
177	Good day!  Would you like to hear about the ArcoMage Championship?	Good day!  Would you like to hear about the ArcoMage Championship?		Arcomage First
178	Welcome ArcoMage Champions!	Welcome ArcoMage Champions!		Arcomage Finished
179	Greetings!  Are you here to study the arts of Sorcerey?	Greetings!  Are you here to study the arts of Sorcerey?	Hint NPC In Bracada	
180	Welcome to Celeste!  There are many great sites to see here!	Welcome to Celeste!  There are many great sites to see here!	Hint NPC In Celeste	
181	Yer in the Pit now!  Wish you were dead yet?	Yer in the Pit now!  Wish you were dead yet?	Hint NPC In The Pit	
182	Nighon is the place to learn the ways of magic.  Have you visited all who could teach you?	Nighon is the place to learn the ways of magic.  Have you visited all who could teach you?	Hint NPC In Nighon	
183	The Barrow Downs is not a place to linger!  I may return to Stone City if it gets much worse here!	The Barrow Downs is not a place to linger!  I may return to Stone City if it gets much worse here!	Hint NPC in Barrow Downs	
184	Tatalia has the most drastic climes in Erathia.  From the snow topped mountains to the swamps to the south.	Tatalia has the most drastic climes in Erathia.  From the snow topped mountains to the swamps to the south.	Hint NPC in Tatalia	
185	Greetings!  Hope the day finds you well!	Greetings!  Hope the day finds you well!	Hint NPC in Avlee	
186	Visitors to Stone City.  Its been a while since we had travelers such as yourselves!  Welcome!	Visitors to Stone City.  Its been a while since we had travelers such as yourselves!  Welcome!	Hint NPC in Stone City	
187	You won Lord Markham's contest?  Good luck…last people who tried to clean this place up went into Castle Harmondale and never came out.	You won Lord Markham's contest?  Good luck…last people who tried to clean this place up went into Castle Harmondale and never came out.	Hint NPC in Harmondale	
188	Welcome to Pierpont.  Be sure not to travel into the forest to the northeast.  Several people have disappeared in that region!	Welcome to Pierpont!  Be sure not to travel into the forest to the northeast.  Several people have disappeared in that region!	Hint NPC in Tularean Forest (4)	
189	Erathia is sure a better place now that Catherine is ruling from Castle Gryphonheart.  Don’t you think?	Erathia is sure a better place now that Catherine is ruling from Castle Gryphonheart.  Don’t you think?	Hint NPC in Erathia (3)	
190	Deyja is the place to learn the ways of magic.  Have you visited all who could teach you?	Deyja is the place to learn the ways of magic.  Have you visited all who could teach you?	Hint NPC in Deyja (5)	
191	"Greetings!  My name is Qillain, and I can make weapons from ore.  If you find ore, just bring me the chunk, and I'll make a weapon of equivalent quality to the ore used.  I will use the best ore first, and I take from only one person at a time."	"Greetings!  My name is Qillain, and I can make weapons from ore.  If you find ore, just bring me the chunk, and I'll make a weapon of equivalent quality to the ore used.  I will use the best ore first, and I take from only one person at a time."	Ore for weapon	
192	"Welcome!  My name is Robert, and I can make armor from ore.  If you find ore, just bring me the chunk, and I'll make a armor of equivalent quality to the ore used.  I will use the best ore first, and I take from only one person at a time."	"Welcome!  My name is Robert, and I can make armor from ore.  If you find ore, just bring me the chunk, and I'll make a armor of equivalent quality to the ore used.  I will use the best ore first, and I take from only one person at a time."	Ore for armor	
193	"Greetings!  My name is Cloud,  and I can make items from ore-- you know, rings, cloaks, boots, and the like.  If you find ore, just bring me the chunk, and I'll make an item of equivalent quality to the ore used.  I will use the best ore first, and I take from only one person at a time."	"Greetings!  My name is Cloud,  and I can make items from ore-- you know, rings, cloaks, boots, and the like.  If you find ore, just bring me the chunk, and I'll make an item of equivalent quality to the ore used.  I will use the best ore first, and I take from only one person at a time."	Ore for misc	
194	"Hold there!  You seemed to have forgotten the Necromancer Tax.  This tax (1000 gold) ensures that the roads stay clear of zombies and costs, and it would be in your best interest to pay."	"Hold there!  You seemed to have forgotten the Necromancer Tax.  This tax (1000 gold) ensures that the roads stay clear of zombies and costs, and it would be in your best interest to pay."	Ambush	
195	Need to make a little extra money?  I buy crates of Tularean Wood and I sell crates of Arrowheads at the best prices around.  	Do you have any Tularean Wood?  I buy crates of Tularean Wood and I sell crates of Arrowheads at the best prices around.  	Trading Triangle 1 1	
196	Perhaps we can do some business together? I buy crates of Arrowheads and I sell crates of Griffin Feathers at the best prices around.  	Do you have any Arrowheads? I buy crates of Arrowheads and I sell crates of Griffin Feathers at the best prices around.  	Trading Triangle 1 2	
197	Looking to make some extra coin?  I buy crates of Griffin Feathers and I sell crates of Tularean Wood at the best prices around.  	Do you have any Griffin Feathers?  I buy crates of Griffin Feathers and I sell crates of Tularean Wood at the best prices around.  	Trading Triangle 1 3	
198	Greetings!  I buy crates of Enrothian Wine and I sell crates of Sand at the best prices around.  Are you interested in making a little money?	Did you bring any bottles of Enrothian Wine?  I buy crates of Enrothian Wine and I sell crates of Sand at the best prices around.  	Trading Triangle 2 1	
199	Care to trade for some extra gold?  I buy crates of Sand and I sell crates of Glass Bottles at the best prices around.  	Greetings!  I buy crates of Sand and I sell crates of Glass Bottles at the best prices around. 	Trading Triangle 2 2	
200	Greetings!  I buy crates of Glass Bottles and I sell crates of Enrothian Wine at the best prices around.  Are you interested in making a little money?	Do you have any Glass Bottles?  I buy crates of Glass Bottles and I sell crates of Enrothian Wine at the best prices around.  	Trading Triangle 2 3	
201	"::You receive a telepathic message:: My…Lords.  My name is Archibald Ironfist.  You've probably heard of me--it is I who, up until recently, was the ruler of the Pit.  With my retirement, I find myself no longer concerned with the affairs of state.  I know that we were adversaries, but I am forced to ask for your help.  In return, I think I can help you.

I see that you're on your way to do battle with the devils, and I want to make sure it goes well.  With the aid of equipment I have found in my new laboratory, I have discovered that my brother Roland, husband to Queen Catherine of Erathia, remains imprisoned by the devils in their foul, ah, dwelling.

Please rescue him!  Not even I can bear to think of my brother in those conditions!  To help you along, I offer this weapon.  It was...found by my loyal servant sergeant Piridak, amongst my advisor's personal belongings.  I hope it helps."	"::You receive a telepathic message:: My…Lords.  My name is Archibald Ironfist.  You've probably heard of me--it is I who, up until recently, was the ruler of the Pit.  With my retirement, I find myself no longer concerned with the affairs of state.  I know that we were adversaries, but I am forced to ask for your help.  In return, I think I can help you.

I see that you're on your way to do battle with the devils, and I want to make sure it goes well.  With the aid of equipment I have found in my new laboratory, I have discovered that my brother Roland, husband to Queen Catherine of Erathia, remains imprisoned by the devils in their foul, ah, dwelling.

Please rescue him!  Not even I can bear to think of my brother in those conditions!  To help you along, I offer this weapon.  It was...found by my loyal servant sergeant Piridak, amongst my advisor's personal belongings.  I hope it helps."	"Archibald contacts party, and party is good (Roland quest)"	
202	"::You receive a telepathic message:: My friends.  I know you are working with my old advisors, but I must ask for your help one more time.

With the aid of equipment I have found in my new laboratory, I have discovered that my brother Roland, husband to Queen Catherine of Erathia, remains imprisoned by the devils in their foul, ah, dwelling.  I overheard that you're on your way to do battle with them (this equipment really is wonderful), and I want to make sure it goes well.  My brother has stolen the key to their leader's chambers, and has hidden it in the beastly cage they're keeping him in.  

Please rescue him!  Not even I can bear to think of my brother in those conditions!  To help you along, I offer this weapon.  It was...found by my loyal servant sergeant Piridak, amongst my advisor's personal belongings.  I hope it helps."	"::You receive a telepathic message:: My friends.  I know you are working with my old advisors, but I must ask for your help one more time.

With the aid of equipment I have found in my new laboratory, I have discovered that my brother Roland, husband to Queen Catherine of Erathia, remains imprisoned by the devils in their foul, ah, dwelling.  I overheard that you're on your way to do battle with them (this equipment really is wonderful), and I want to make sure it goes well.  My brother has stolen the key to their leader's chambers, and has hidden it in the beastly cage they're keeping him in.  

Please rescue him!  Not even I can bear to think of my brother in those conditions!  To help you along, I offer this weapon.  It was...found by my loyal servant sergeant Piridak, amongst my advisor's personal belongings.  I hope it helps."	"Archibald contacts party, and party is evil (Roland quest)"	
203	"Halt!  Visitors aren't permitted in this section of Stone City.  If you are looking for King Hothfarr's throne room, it is to the east of here."	"Halt!  You have already been warned once!  Visitors aren't permitted in this section of Stone City.  If you are looking for King Hothfarr's throne room, it is to the east of here."	Guard Stone City	
204	"Good day, my lords.  How do you fare?"	"Good day, my lords.  How do you fare?"	Goblin spy	
205	"Ah, the contestants!  I hope you haven't come to try to give Harmondale back to me!  If you look at the contract you signed, it explicitly states that our deal is irrevocable on page nine, subparagraph iii, section c.  The deal really is cut and dried.  Buy the ticket--take the ride! ::Yawns:: Now, is there anything else you wished to speak about?  "	"Hmmph.  You don't actually expect me to act as though you really were a noble, do you?  Once a peasant, always a peasant, that's what my mother used to say.  Really, could you use the servant's entrance next time you stop by?  It really is embarrassing to have you dusty, mud spattered peasants coming in through the front door.  What will the neighbors think?"		


			Hothfarr IX
