#	Text	Notes	Owner
1	"Emerald Island is southeast of Erathia, and far away from pirates and other ruffians.  It would be ideal, if not for the constant swarms of dragonflies that infest the island.  Fortunately, the large number of armed and skilled people this contest has attracted should thin their numbers a bit.

Lord Markham has supplemented the normally sparse village with a weapon, armor, and alchemist shop for your convenience during the contest.  A temple and basic magical guilds are also available.  I would suggest making sure that you are completely ready before you start off on the contest."		
2	Welcome to Emerald Island!  I'll be your docent for your stay on the island.  It is my duty to see that you understand the rules of both the island and the contest.  For the duration of your stay on Emerald Island please refrain from gross violations of civilized behavior.		
3	"I respect your decision.  I am, however, a patient man, and will offer you this chance until a winner in the contest is proclaimed."	Malwick no	
4	"The rules of the contest are simple:  The first person to return with the items is the winner.  All you need to do is collect a wealthy hat, a red potion, a longbow, a seashell, a musical instrument, and a floor tile from the Temple of the Moon and bring them to the judge to win."		
5	"Isn't this hunt exciting?  I really am grateful you came to my little event, and I hope you have fun, even if you don't win.  I think it's great that everyone is competing in a spirit of good sportsmanship and camaraderie."	speech stays until contest is won	
6	"If you win, you'll be in charge of one of the most scenic areas in all Erathia!  Harmondale is just outside of the Tularean Forest, right on the edge of the Elf-Human border.  And I'm sure you'll love the castle.  It's a bit of a fixer-upper, but it's quite roomy and has excellent ventilation.  It breaks my heart to part with this property, but I feel that the time has come for me to give something back to the people."	speech stays until contest is won	Markham
7	"Congratulations!  You are the new Lords of Harmondale!  Isn't it thrilling?  You can't imagine how good it feels for me to give this property away to you!  All of the benefits and rewards, and of course, the responsibilities of governing the town of Harmondale are now yours.  (Lord Markham produces a deed and contract) Just sign here...And here... And if I could just get your initials here... Yes!  Well, that's that!  You're all set.  And once again, congratulations!!!"	Replace this topic with 8 after it is spoken	
8	"Well, the ship that will take you to your fiefdom awaits you in the harbor.  My entourage and I will be taking a different ship out.  Just board whenever you're ready."	Replaces topic 7 permanently	
9	"Allow me to introduce myself.  My name is Mr. Malwick.  I represent a group of, shall we say, ""investors in the future"".  I have been observing you since you arrived on this island, and I believe your values and goals have much in common with ours.  I am empowered to grant you a fireball wand to help you win the Hunt today, in exchange for a favor in the future.  What do you say?"	"y/n.  If no, change text to 21.  If yes, print text 22, and remove this npc.  "	
10	We have reason to believe that whoever is in charge of Harmondale in the next few months will have an unprecedented opportunity to shape the future.  That is why I am here today--to make sure the shape of the future is pleasing to my associates.  I'm sure you understand.	Malwick	
11	"Excellent.  Sometime in the future, I or a representative of my group will call on you to return the favor.  I hope you won't disappoint us.  Here is your fireball wand.  We should not be seen talking again, the others might get suspicious."	"give fireball wand, remove this npc. (Mr. Malwick)"	
12	"I love being out on this side of the island, the view of the ocean is much better than from town, don't you agree?"	Sally	
13	"I have some nice sea shells for sale, shells that you can only find on Emerald Island.  Can I sell one to you?  They're only a hundred gold pieces each."	Sally	
14	"Here you go, I hope it reminds you of your trip to Emerald Island."	Sally	
15	"I really can't go any less than 100 gold; I need to make a living, too."	Sally	
16	"I see you have a fine hat, there.  How about a deal:  You give me your hat, and we let you keep your lives?"	Sharktooth
17	"Thanks for the hat, friend!"	Sharktooth
18	You should have accepted my offer…	Sharktooth
19	This Temple is a pretty nasty place.  You should probably watch your back around here-- you never know what might want to kill you.	Sharktooth
20	You should have listened to me; I warned you this was a nasty place.  Now get out of here before I decide to take something else from you.	Sharktooth
21	I take this to mean you don't wish to accept my proposal.  I believe our business is concluded.	Malwick
22	The toughest band of contestants have apparently hid out in the Temple of the Moon.  I think they might be wanting to ambush any group that tries to go there.	Adventurer 1
23	"I know how to make a blue potion, but not red ones…Just about any blue herb will do.  Just mix it with an empty bottle and voila!  Instant blue potion.  I guess that making a red potion is similar, but I'm not sure.  They say mixing potions improperly can have really bad effects."	Adventurer 1
24	"Sorry mates, this vessel's moored until a winner has been declared in the contest."	
25	"Good afternoon.  My duty is to verify that you have all the items necessary to win the contest.  You are required to bring a red potion, a longbow, a floor tile from the Temple of the Moon, a wealthy hat, seashell, and an instrument to me.  You can bring them in any order, just show them to me one at a time so that I may verify them."	judge
26	"I see you have found a wealthy hat.  I shall mark this off your list accordingly, good work."	hat
27	"Hmm, a fine lute this is.  Let me mark off the instrument from your list."	instrument
28	"Adventurers indeed!  I didn't expect anyone to bring back a tile so quickly.  This is certainly a tile from the Temple, however so I shall mark the tile off your list."	floor tile
29	"This longbow certainly qualifies for the hunt.  Good work, I shall mark that off your list."	longbow
30	"A beautiful shell, much like the ones that Sally sells.  This certainly came from Emerald Island- I shall mark the shell off your list."	seashell
31	"What took you so long?  Almost every group has turned in a red potion by now.  This is the easiest item in the hunt to manage, but better late than never.  I will mark it off your list."	red potion
32	"Well, that's all six items.  You're the winner of the contest!  I suggest you talk to Lord Markham for the details on gaining your fiefdom, my work is done here."	all 
33	"I'm sorry, but nothing you have is necessary for the hunt.  I don't mean to belittle what you have, but I'm not looking for any of it."	none
34	"Are you contestants in Lord Markham's Scavenger Hunt?  How neat!  I'm here to provide entertainment to Lord Markham's entourage, the contestants, and to anyone else that would like to hear a song."	bard
35	"I own a few instruments, but I only brought my lute with me.  Its old and not quite as well kept as some of the others, but I didn't want one of my good instruments stolen by pirates or damaged from exposure to the humid, salty air."	bard
36	"You say you need an instrument for the Scavenger Hunt?  I suppose you could buy my lute, but I've had it for such a long time.  I guess I'd part with it for 500 gold.  Interested?"	bard
37	"Well, promise to at least take care of it and not use it for firewood.  I suppose I'll have to make do without an instrument for the rest of this trip.  Maybe I should tell stories instead of sing until I get back home."	bard
38	It would help if you had the 500 gold pieces.  Please don't try and cheat me out of my instrument.	bard
39	"Hello there!  I suppose you're part of the contest?  Good to hear.  We were wondering if you would want to trade a red potion, assuming you have one, for a hat.  We could help each other along a little."	Adventurer 1
40	"Wonderful!  Here's the hat and I'll take the potion.  Thanks so much, now we're almost finished with our list."	Adventurer 1
41	"What's the matter?  You don't like to work with others?  Fine then, you'll get no help from us."	Adventurer 1
42	"Is this some sort of trick?  You don't even have a red potion.  You don't think I'll just give you the hat, do you?"	Adventurer 1
43	"Good job, mates!  We'll be heading off for Harmondale right now.  Congratulations."	
44	Keep in mind I have a 1000 gold reward for the group to bring back information on the contestants that have disappeared.	
45	No news on the missing people yet?	
46	There really is a dragon on the island?  I thought everyone was referring to the dragonflies everywhere.  I'll warn everyone to stay away from that cave so we don't lose anyone else.	
47	"Hmm… I recall a few strangers poking around the entrance to the Dragon's Cave recently.  I didn't notice if they went inside, but I haven't seen them around since.  They must have realized how dangerous that place is and headed back to town."	
48	"The cave right behind my house is not the Abandoned Temple.  It belongs to Morcarack the Pitiless, the Dragon of Emerald Island.  He doesn't appreciate visitors, so I wouldn't advise going there.  The Abandoned Temple is buried in the hill south of my house.  You can get to it by entering the caves at the top of the hill."		
49	"Wild Dragonflies have infested the northwestern side of Emerald Island recently, making it dangerous to store things in our shed out there.  Dragonflies aren't terribly powerful, but they are fast and can even occasionally shoot fire at you.  Don't take them too lightly!"		
50	"The Dragon of Emerald Island lives in a cave in the northeast.  I wouldn't go there, though, he doesn't like visitors.  He spares our town so that we may pay him tribute, and in return he keeps pirates and undesirables out."		
51	"You're contestants in the Scavenger Hunt?  If so, I wouldn't wander off to the Dragon Cave, then.  Morcarack doesn't tolerate strangers very well.  I bet the missing people went there thinking his cave was the Abandoned Temple--they're probably long dead."		
52	"I'd watch those other contestants-- some of them seem ruthless.  One particularly nasty group headed to the north side of the island, and I haven't seen them since.  I'm surprised at the attention this contest has received, apparently people are hoping to get on the good side of the contestants for future favors if they win."		
53	"You have decided that you no longer desire my information about the places on Emerald Island.  If you later decide that you'd like to hear what I have to say, then select Tour On."	Tour Off	
54	You have decided to listen to my tour about the points of interest on Emerald Island.  If you decide that you no longer want me to point out areas of interest then select Tour Off.	Tour On	
55	"Though the law may decide who is guilty and who is not, I decide who is called Thief, and who is just a criminal.  Bring me that lovely vase I saw on the mantle in Lord Markham’s manor, and I shall call you Rogue."	Rogue Promo first time	William Lasker
56	"Common criminals steal whatever catches their eye; Rogues steal what I tell them to steal.  I shall not grant titles to failures.  Return with Lord Markham’s Vase and I will promote all Thieves to Rogues, and all non-thieves to Honorary Rogues."	Return w/o vase	William Lasker
57	"Well done.  Stealing that vase took guts and skill.  I grant you the title of Rogue, and a small payment for your services. "	Return w/ vase	William Lasker
58	"You have chosen the path of Darkness, and I will promote you no further.  Perhaps an Assassin would have something to teach you.  I hear there is one in Deyja."	"Spy, party is evil"	William Lasker
59	"You are not quite ready to take the next step.  The time is fast approaching when you must decide whether to follow the path of light, or the path of darkness.  If you choose the Light, return to me to complete your training."	Not completed arbiter	William Lasker
60	"Your next task is somewhat more difficult…more suited for Spies than Rogues.  I have been asked to ensure that Watchtower 6, the only tower to survive the recent wars against the Necromancers, be unable to defend itself the next time it is attacked.  Killing the guards inside won’t help—the Necromancers will just fill it again with more troops.  The tower is on the southern edge of the Necromancers’ land.  I want you to slip inside and move the counterweight in the gatehouse at the top of the tower to the gatehouse at the bottom of the tower.  It is a heavy weight that can be found in a slot against the wall with a rope tied to it.  When the time comes for an attack, the misplaced weights will be noticed too late, and the gate will not close.  If you can do this, you will have proven your status as a Spy."	First time Spy	William Lasker
61	Um…The weight needs to go in the box in the lower gatehouse—not here.  Go back to Watchtower 6 and put the weight in the right box!	Return with weight	William Lasker
62	"Hmm.  Removing the weight from the upper gatehouse was a start, but where is it now?!?  The plan won’t work unless you put the weight in the lower gatehouse!  Go back to Watchtower 6 and put the weight in the right box!"	No weight	William Lasker
63	"You haven’t done the job yet!  Remember, you must go to Watchtower 6 and move the weight from the box in the upper gatehouse to the lower gatehouse.  I will not promote you until that is done. "	Done nothing	William Lasker
64	"Good work!  Some day, your sabotage of that watchtower will save hundreds of lives.  For your services, I hereby promote the Rogues among you to the status of Spy, and the Honorary Rogues to Honorary Spies! Oh, and here’s some gold as payment. "	Success	William Lasker
65	"So, Johann be wanting the Faerie Pipes, eh?  I can't say I'm surprised--he wouldn't come here himself, the coward.  The Pipes will cost you, though… all your food.  Of course, I've got some delightful food down below, should thee be wanting to restock your packs."	Pipes Quest	Faerie King
66	Refreshing! (+50 Endurance temporary)	Drink Tea	Seknit Undershadow
67	"So…you wish to become an Assassin.  Very well.  I can provide the Rogues among you the training necessary, but you must prove both your skill and your loyalty before I will invest time in you.  My superiors inform me that a certain Lady Eleanor Carmine’s life must end.  She used to work for us, but has taken up residence in the Celestial Court with our enemies, and is providing them with information damaging to our cause.  Silence her, and return with a trinket of hers to prove the job is done."	First time Assassin	Seknit Undershadow
68	"You have chosen the path of Light, and therefore can never become an effective Assassin.  I cannot train you.  Perhaps you should continue a softer hearted training with the Spy."	Party good	Seknit Undershadow
69	"I can turn a simple Rogue into a fearsome killer, but only if he has the right kind of temperament for the job.  The time is coming when you must choose to walk in the light, or in the dark.  If you prefer the shadow, come to me and I will complete your training."	No Arbiter	Seknit Undershadow
70	"If you were looking for someone to train you in advanced stealth techniques, I  would be your man.  But you still need someone to teach you basic techniques.  Return to me when you achieve Rogue or Honorary Rogue status.  Then, perhaps, I can further your education.  Seek the Master Thief in the sewers of Erathia."	No Rogue	Seknit Undershadow
71	"Without proof, I cannot assume Lady Carmine is dead.  Bring me proof, and I will honor you with the title of Assassin."	Fail	Seknit Undershadow
72	"So, the job is done. [He examines the dagger slowly, then sighs.] She was very dear to me, but emotion is the enemy of reason.  I could not have done the job myself.  Thank you.  Truly now, you are Assassins.  The rogues among you, I will give special training to.  Here is a small payment to help cover the expenses you incurred on the job. "	Success	Seknit Undershadow
73	"You don't have the tapestry yet, and the clock is ticking.  It would be prudent to keep to the task at hand rather than bothering me with your babble."		Niles missing message
74	"Ha! So, thee wishes to take the test to be a crusader?  I cannot blame thee—the sense of pride one feels when one has accomplished a heroic deed is sublime!  The test is simple.  A dragon must be slain.  I know just the one—Wromthrax the Heartless!  He lives in a cave in Tatalia, and terrorizes the peasants who live near him when he’s home.  He should be in the cave this time of year.  Because this is probably thine first dragon, I will travel with thee to give thee pointers.  So, let us go forthwith, and spill this monster’s black blood!"	First time Crusader	Sir Charles Quixote
75	"Hurrah!  The Dragon has fallen!  Truly thou art grand Crusaders in good standing, with a fine deed behind thee.  I would stay and sing songs of thy bravery with thee, but duty calls.  Surely we will meet again, Crusaders!"	Success	Sir Charles Quixote
76	"We must finish our quest before I can name thee Crusaders, friends."	Fail	Sir Charles Quixote
77	"I am pleased to see thee chose the path of Light, Crusaders!  A wrong has been committed, friends, and who else but us can put it right?  A wicked villain has kidnapped a fair maiden by the name of Alice Hargreaves.  His name is William Setag, and he has imprisoned her in his tower.  You must ride forthwith to put this villain to the sword and rescue sweet Alice!  If you succeed, you will truly be Heroes of the Land!"	First time Hero	Sir Charles Quixote
78	"I will not have truck with thee further, scoundrel!  I see now thee hath chosen the path of Darkness.  Mayhaps thee should seek a villain like thyself for training."	Party evil	Sir Charles Quixote
79	"Ah, fellow Crusaders!  I know thee thirsts for another task with which to hone thy Crusading skills, but first thee must pass a far more serious test.  Thee must agree to follow the Path of Light before I can help thee further.  You will know when you have made this choice.  Return to me then."	No Arbiter	Sir Charles Quixote
80	"Thee’ve done it! I knew thee could do it!  I’m so proud of thee!  Alice has been freed of the clutches of the wicked William Setag, evil has been vanquished, and good upheld.  Where once there was wrong, now there is right! [Charles sighs and smiles broadly] Well.  My work here is done!  Thee have passed the tests and deserve thy reward.  Therefore do I solemnly declare thee Heroes! "	Success	Sir Charles Quixote
81	"Though thy deeds remain impressive indeed, crusaders, I cannot declare thee Heroes until you have rescued the girl!"	Fail	Sir Charles Quixote
82	Tsk tsk.  You haven't finished your training as a Crusader; I cannot instruct you until you show proper dedication.	No Crusader	William Setag
83	"It should be impossible for you to see this right now.  If you are reading this, tell Bryan that the event and/or logic of this quest is messed up because you should either be good attempting the Hero quest, or evil attempting the Villain quest and you are apparently neither."	Error	Alice Hargreaves
84	"Help!  William has captured me and imprisoned me in this tower.  Please get me out of here as quickly as possible, I don't want to die."	Rescue Me	Alice Hargreaves
85	Thank you so much for helping me away from William's clutches.	Thanks for rescuing me?	Alice Hargreaves
86	"Excuse me, but who might you be?  Hey!  Get your hands off of me!  Help!"	Who are you?	Alice Hargreaves
87	Where do you think you're taking me?  I have a rich family-- you'll be in a lot of trouble if you don't let me go!	Where are you taking me?	Alice Hargreaves
88	"Let's get down to business, shall we?  I know you are well aware of my standing as the blackest Villain in Erathia.  It requires effort and drive to prove to be this evil-- I hope you have the mettle for it.  I would love nothing more than to keep you in my training for years and teach you the finest parts of being a Villain.  Unfortunately, I am under pressure to speed up your tutelage.  To this end, I have a direct way to learn the arts of Villainhood.  There is a woman, Alice Hargreaves, who is of noble blood and pure character.  Capture this woman from her residence in Castle Gryphonheart. Return here and imprison her in my tower.  Complete this, and I shall promote all Crusaders in your group to Villains, and the rest of your group to Honorary Villains."	First time Villain	William Setag
89	"I'd certainly love nothing more than to corrupt your obviously pious soul, but I'm afraid you wouldn't have the stomach to follow through with my teachings.  You have chosen the Path of Light, you will garner no assistance from me."	Party good	William Setag
90	"Before you make this decision, you have a more pressing, immediate decision you will be forced to make.  If you choose the darker road, you may return to me and complete your training in the Paladins' arts."	No arbiter	William Setag
91	"Capital!  You have shown dedication, daring, and the power of raw force.  Certainly the imprisonment of such a fair and noble creature in this wicked place earns you the right to be called a Villain-- or Honorary Villain.  Go now upon the world and make all fear your name."	Success	William Setag
92	"Where's Alice?  I'm not asking for much, just a simple kidnapping.  Is it really that difficult?  I suggest you speed up your efforts."	Fail	William Setag
93	"Ah, it is normal for novice Monks to ask for the path of enlightenment.  I shall tell you of the path, though the journey is yours to make.  In the Barrow Downs is a series of tombs-- one of which was constructed on a site of great natural power.  You will know the right barrow because it is different from the rest.  Reach this barrow and meditate by the water, and your promotion to Initiate will be complete."	First time Initiate	Bartholomew Hume
94	"[Bartholomew Hume contacts you mentally] Congratulations, young ones.  My final lesson given to you as Monks is this:  enlightenment is gained by the journey, not the destination.  In this case, the destination was critical to prove that you were capable of the journey.  I shall now promote all Monks to Initiates and everyone else to Honorary Initiates-- congratulations."	Success	Bartholomew Hume
95	You have not finished your journey.  Return to me only when you have completed your task.	Fail	Bartholomew Hume
96	"I see you wish to continue your journey.  Excellent!  Have no fear, for you are prepared for your next step.  You must extinguish the remnants of an evil order- the Order of Baa.  Defeat their High Priest and return to me and I shall complete your training and promote you to Master."	First Time Master	Bartholomew Hume
97	"I am sorry, but I am permitted to train you no longer.  You will need to find a new Master to learn from."	Party evil	Bartholomew Hume
98	A fork approaches in your path.  I will only train you after you've chosen to walk the lighter path.	No arbiter	Bartholomew Hume
99	I cannot improve upon training you do not already have.  You must be promoted to Crusader before I can train you in the ways of villainy.	No Crusader	William Setag
100	"I am the one you need to speak with in order to join the Guild of the Elements.  The cost to join is 100 gold pieces.  Only members may purchase spells from our fine library.  The guild has spells from all four of the elemental disciplines, and like all guilds in the kingdom, we have two guild halls.  Membership in one automatically enrolls you in the other."		
101	"It is my sacred duty to accept donations for the Guild of the Self.  If you contribute 100 gold pieces, we will grant you guild member status.  Members are permitted to buy spells from any Guild of the Self in the land."		
102	Air is the element the sorcerers join the profession to learn!  We have all the best spells--including the glorious Fly spell.  Don't miss out on this fantastic opportunity to join the Air guild!  Just 50 gold!		
103	Membership in the Guild of Earth will give you access to our excellent library of earth spells.  This membership is good for all Earth Guilds on the continent of Erathia.  The cost to join is but 50 gold pieces.		
104	Why be subtle when you can learn Fire magic?  Joining our guild costs but 50 gold for a lifetime membership.		
105	"Membership in the Guild of Water gives you the right to buy our spells of change and movement.  It's my job to recruit new members and collect membership dues from them.  The price is 50 gold, and that includes membership in all of our guild halls."		
106	"I am the guild recruiter for the Guild of Body.  A lot of people think that our spells just heal the body, but some can damage the bodies of your opponents too.  The cost is 50 gold pieces."		
107	"50 gold pieces buys you membership in the Guild of the Mind.  Why fight a monster yourself when you can get its friends to fight it for you?  Kills two birds with one stone, if you ask me.  Well, what do you say?"		
108	"Many believe the most powerful magic to be Light magic, or Dark magic, or something destructive, like Fire.  We at the Spirit guild would like to point out that no magic besides Light magic can raise the dead, and even then it takes a Grandmaster in the element.  If you want power over life and death, choose Spirit magic.  The cost to join is but 50 gold pieces."		
109	Light magic represents the most powerful magic a person can wield without cost to his soul.  We feel confident our price of 1000 gold pieces for guild membership is fair.  You won't regret your decision to pursue Light magic.		
110	At last you have an opportunity to learn Dark magic by joining the Guild of the Dark.  Don't squander it!  Dark magic is the strongest magic.  The cost is only 1000 gold pieces.  You know it's worth it.		
111	Join the Elemental Guild for 100 gold		
112	Join the Self Guild for 100 gold
113	Join the Air Guild for 50 gold
114	Join the Earth Guild for 50 gold
115	Join the Fire Guild for 50 gold
116	Join the Water Guild for 50 gold
117	Join the Body Guild for 50 gold
118	Join the Mind Guild for 50 gold
119	Join the Spirit Guild for 50 gold
120	Join the Light Guild for 1000 gold
121	Join the Dark Guild for 1000 gold
122	You must be a member of this guild to study here
123	Not in your condition!
124	You're already a member of this guild.
125	You don't have enough gold!
126	You must first be an expert in this skill before you can become a master!
127	You must first be a master in this skill before you can become a grandmaster!
128	"You don't meet the requirements, and cannot be taught until you do."		
129	You are already an expert in this skill.		
130	You are already a master in this skill.		
131	You are already a grandmaster in this skill.		
132	You must know the skill before you can become an expert in it!		
133	Missing Text 133	Roland 2	
134	"Good work.  No longer shall the Order of Baa stain the lands of Erathia.  Now, allow me to promote all Initiates to Masters, and all Honorary Initiates to Honorary Masters.  Keep in mind that this is but a stop along the path of enlightenment.  Your journey only ends with your eventual death-- never close your mind."	Success	Bartholomew Hume
135	"The Temple of Baa still stands, their High Priest still lives.  Until this is completed, you are not ready for the title of Master.  Go now and do not fail."	Fail	Bartholomew Hume
136	"An agent of mine has sent me a message I need deciphered.  The cipher relies on knowing which word of which a certain book to match it against.  If you wish to become a Ninja, this is what you must do: Infiltrate the School of Wizardry and find out what the third word of the famed Scroll of Waves is.  Use it to decipher the message, then do what the message tells you to do.  It is the key to enter the Tomb of the Master.  You'll find the tomb in Southern Erathia.  [Stephan hands you a scrap of paper] Here is the encoded message."	First time Ninja	Stephan Sand
137	"Ambition is good, but I only train experienced students.  Come back when you've achieved Initiate status, and perhaps I'll teach you…IF you have the right outlook.  If you're looking for someone who is willing to help you become an Initiate, perhaps you should start with that wimp Bartholomew Hume.  I'm sure he'd be willing to give you an elementary education."	Not initiate	Stephan Sand
138	[Stephan Sand sneers] YOU want ME to teach you something?  You sniveling do-gooders make my knife arm twitch!  Get out of my sight before I REALLY teach you about fighting!	Party good	Stephan Sand
139	"Though you have achieved initiate status, I am uncertain that you can stomach some of my more extreme teachings.  Return to me when you have formally rejected all philosophies that turn people into weaklings and cowards."	No arbiter	Stephan Sand
140	"So you have the key, but you haven't followed the directions in the message.  Remember, the tomb is in Southern Erathia.  Complete your task, and return to me to report success.  If you can't complete your mission, don't bother returning to me.  Failure is pathetic."	"Key, no tomb"	Stephan Sand
141	"[Sand sighs] Once again, the cipher key is the third word of the first paragraph of the Scroll of Waves.  You can find it somewhere in the School of Wizardry.  I don't care how you get in there--kill anyone who gets in your way, or sneak in.  Whatever you want.  The only thing that matters is success.  Everything else is an excuse for personal weakness."	No key	Stephan Sand
142	"Well done.  No one can argue with success except apologists for the weak and the cowardly.  I hereby promote all Initiates to Ninjas, and all non-Initiates to Honorary Ninjas.  Oh yeah, go ahead and keep that little trinket you stole from the tomb.  This was just a training exercise, after all."	Success	Stephan Sand
143	"A few generations ago, an enchanted bow was created by alchemists in the Tularean Forest to seal another peace treaty between the elves and the humans.  While en route to Erathia, the bow was taken from the couriers by the Titans in Avlee.  They have no use for the thing, so it's probably in their stronghold still.  Strike a blow for our profession, and get that bow back.  It is absolutely the finest thing of its kind ever made.  Oh, and while you're there, feel free to cut some of those bullies down to size--They stole it out of cruelty, not need!  If you are successful, I will promote all Warrior Mages to Master Archers, or honorary Master Archers, as the case may be."	First time Master Archer	Lawrence Mark
144	"So, you've achieved the rank of Warrior Mage, and wish to advance to Master Archer!  A worthy goal, but I only promote those who's heart and courage match their skill.  Come back to me when you have firmly committed to the Light.  Then I will help you."	No Arbiter	Lawrence Mark
145	"You have chosen the path of Darkness.  I will never help you improve, for fear you will use your skills to advance your selfish goals!"	Party evil	Lawrence Mark
146	"I am the person to see if you want to become Master Archers, but you have come too soon!  You must have the proper background to become a Master, and that means first becoming a warrior mage.  Return when you are ready."	No Warrior Mage	Lawrence Mark
147	"You found the bow!  Let me take some measurements and adjust it to your specific style of archery. Once I have finished you should keep it, and use it in defense the of the land and the people.  I am happy to promote all Warrior Mages to Master Archers, and all Honorary Warrior Mages to Honorary Master Archers."	Success	Lawrence Mark
148	"No luck getting the bow?  Well, take your time, and plan your assault against the Titans carefully.  Against such powerful opponents, there is no shame in striking and retreating.  Do what you must to defeat these monsters."	Fail	Lawrence Mark
149	"[Wheeze] So you think you can become Warrior Mages, do you?  It isn't easy.  You must be equally proficient in magical skills and physical skills.  There is a test of this.  Visit the Red Dwarf Mines.  Inside you will find two kinds of beasts--one that can be harmed only with magic, and one that can be harmed only with steel.  In the back of the lower section of the mines you will find a machine created by the Dwarves that powers the lift-- the only access between the upper and lower sections of the mines.  To keep the creatures trapped in the lower section, you will have to replace the belt in the machine with this one, a worn belt that will only last about an hour before breaking.  This should give you enough time to get to the lift and get out before you are trapped down there.  Seal away these creatures and return to me-- only then will I call you Warrior Mages."	First time Warrior Mage	Steagal Snick
150	"Very Good.  You have passed the test.  Now the creatures are sealed away and won't be able to prey on the dwarves any longer, and you have proven your ability in both sorcery and steel.  I am proud to declare all Archers amongst you Warrior Mages, and everyone else Honorary Warrior Mages.  Congratulations!  Now get out.  I already weary of your company."	Success	Steagal Snick
151	You haven't sabotaged the machine yet.  You must finish this before I'll promote you to Warrior Mage.	Fail	Steagal Snick
152	"Getting ambitious, are we?  Think you can earn the title of sniper?  Perhaps you can.  Here is what you must do:  In the stronghold of the Titans is a very special bow that was meant as a peace offering from the elves to the humans to quell a conflict long since forgotten.  [Master Snick shakes his head] Gads! This peace stuff makes me nauseous!  In any case, fetch the bow for the good of our profession, and I'll promote you to Sniper.  [Heh] you better act like snipers if you expect to defeat the Titans.  A toe to toe...or should I say head to knee fight won't go well for you."	First time Sniper	Steagal Snick
153	"Want to be a Sniper, eh? Maybe.  But I doubt you have the heart for it.  It needs to shrivel like a raisin and get hard as a stone to be able to do what you must.  Prove to me you are following the Path of Darkness, and then I will teach you further."	No arbiter	Steagal Snick
154	"Following the Path of Light, are we?  How can you be a Sniper if you cry everytime you shoot someone in the back?  Maybe you should ask that lily-livered Lawrence Mark to help you.  I know that I will not."	Party good	Steagal Snick
155	"You have the bow?!  Excellent!  It's been centuries since someone was brave enough to take on the Titans and try to get that bow back!  Let me take some measurements and adjust it to your specific style of archery.  I am proud to be the one to first call all Warrior Mages amongst you Snipers, and to say that all Honorary Warrior Mages are Honorary Snipers!  I must admit I didn't think you had it in you to succeed.  I am happy that I was wrong."	Success	Steagal Snick
156	"More failure? [Master Snick yawns]  How surprising.  I'll make it simple--no bow, no title."	Fail	Steagal Snick
157	"So you want to be champions, do you?  Ha!  How can you be a champion if you don't win any tournaments?  You know, I can't really promote you to Champion status--you have to do it yourself, just like everything else.  Go and win five championship tournaments in the Arena at Knight level, and come back to me.  I'll call you Champions then, if you want."	First time Champion	Leda Rowan
158	"I can see you very much want to be called Champions, but I'm not so sure I should help you.  Prove to me that you follow the Path of Light, and then we'll talk about promotion."	No arbiter	Leda Rowan
159	"Call you Champions?  Never!  The only reason I'm not hacking you evil doers to bits is that you came here peacefully.  Leave now, before I change my mind and rid the world of another problem."	Party evil	Leda Rowan
160	"I am the person to talk to if you want to be called Champions.  First, though, you must practice.  Return to me when you've become Cavaliers.  Then, if you have the right outlook, I will tell you what you must do to become Champions."	No cavalier	Leda Rowan
161	"Congratulations for you recent tourney victories, my friends!  I gladly name the Cavaliers among you Champions, and the Honorary Cavaliers I name Honorary Champions!  Always fight for the Light, Champions!"	Success	Leda Rowan
162	"You have not yet won 5 championship tournaments in the Arena.  Return to me when you have won five, and I will promote you.  Remember, these battles MUST be at the Knight difficulty level."	Fail	Leda Rowan
163	"The hallmark of the Cavalier is courage.  I can promote you to Cavalier status, but before I'll do that, you'll have to prove to me your bravery in battle.  Since most people are yellow bellied cowards at heart, I doubt you'll succeed.  But if you want to try, here is what you must do: Destroy all the undead in the haunted mansion in the Barrow Downs."	First time Cavalier	Frederick Og
164	"So you're back!  And from the look on your faces I see you have finished the job.  Well done!  I hereby officially promote all Knights amongst you to Cavaliers, and everyone else to honorary Cavaliers.  Carry your title with pride!"	Success	Frederick Og
165	"Did one little haunted house send you packing in fear?  I've seen chocolate eclairs with more backbone than you!  Get you gone, and don't come back 'til you've stiffened your spine!"	Fail	Frederick Og
166	"So you think you can become Black Knights, do you?  Very well.  You know, I've heard many people say that criminals are cowards.  That just isn't true.  It takes a lot of courage to risk your life in a robbery, or in battle.  You've already proven you are courageous, and now it's time to put that courage and your skills to use.  I want you to rob the Elvish Treasury.  It's one of the biggest hoards of treasure in the land, and it is very well guarded.  Do the deed and abscond with the wealth.  Return to me when you've finished.  Then I will promote you to Black Knights."	First Time Black Knight	Frederick Og
167	It's true that I am the one you go to when you're looking to be promoted to Black Knight status.  But how can you become a Black Knight when you haven't even decided whether or not you're evil?  Return to me when you have fully committed to Darkness.  Only then will I resume your training.	No arbiter	Frederick Og
168	Bah!  You do-gooders are worthless!  It is impossible for me to teach anything more to you!  	Party good	Frederick Og
169	"All RIGHT!  That robbery was brilliant!  I am very proud of you.  Keep the loot--it's your reward for a job well done.  I can safely say the Cavaliers among you have become Black Knights today, and I'll throw in an Honorary Black Knight title for the rest of you.  You've done well, my students!"	Success	Frederick Og
170	Robbery not complete?  No.  Don't come to me and report failure.  Don't come and tell me you lost your nerve.  Get out there and rob that treasury!  Failure is not an option!	Fail	Frederick Og
171	"Well, it looks like you might be able to do the job I have in mind.  The fundamental task a Ranger Lord faces is caring for the land.  Recently, poachers removed a magical gemstone called the ""heart of the forest"" from the Tularean Forest.  The forest has become restless, and attacks travelers who come too close.  The forest blames all 'Walkers' for the theft, and won't calm down until the stone is returned.  Find the stone and return it to the oldest tree in the Forest.  Come back to me when you've done this."	First Time Ranger Lord	Lysander Sweet
172	"I would like to be your teacher--I really would, but I'm not sure you're cut out to be a Ranger Lord.  Soon you must make a decision of the heart.  If you choose the Path of Light, return to me.  I would be honored to be your teacher."	No arbiter	Lysander Sweet
173	"[Lysander shakes his head, smiling gently] Too soon, eager ones.  I train only the most advanced students.  Seek me out again when you reach Hunter status."	No Hunter	Lysander Sweet
174	[Lysander frowns] You've chosen the path of darkness.  I refuse to teach such as you--you would only use my lessons to further your selfish goals.  May Heaven have mercy on your souls.	Party Evil	Lysander Sweet
175	"If you can't figure out where to start, you should try finding the oldest tree in the forest.  It should be somewhere outside of Pierpont in Avlee.  The oldest tree has the power of speech, and may know something helpful.  It will be happy to tell you whatever you want to hear, plus a whole lot more.  You'll see."	No tree	Lysander Sweet
176	"Well, you've spoken with the tree, and now know as much as I do about the theft.  If you manage to find the stone, take it directly to the tree and then come see me."	Fail	Lysander Sweet
177	"You've done a good thing, returning the Heart.  The forest is quieter now, and no longer attacks travelers.  You've probably saved many lives.  For service to the Land and the Light, I hereby promote all Hunters among you to Ranger Lords, and all honorary Hunters to honorary Ranger Lords!"	Success	Lysander Sweet
178	"Think you can improve?  I have a test for you.  A hunter needs to understand the woods, and a hunter needs to be as skilled with magic as with a blade.  The best teachers for that are the faeries.  There's a faerie mound in Northern Avlee.  Figure out how to get in, and the Faeries will grant magic to the genuine rangers among you, meaning that they will be promoted to Hunter status.  The rest of you will be honorary hunters. "	First time Hunter	Ebednezer Sour
179	"Foxed by the Faeries? [Ebednezer snickers, then begins to laugh uproariously at his own wit] Foxed?  Faeries?  Hahahah!  Get it?  Foxed… you know…ah ahahah.  Maybe not.  Well, I've already told you how to become Hunters.  Get inside the Faerie Mound in Avlee.  Now, stop bothering me!  "	Fail	Ebednezer Sour
180	"Better a bounty hunter than a plain old hunter, huh?  Well, this test is even simpler than the Faerie Mound idea, and you won't have to think so hard.  Ever notice how the town halls are always looking for someone to kill a monster for them?  All you have to do is collect 10,000 in bounties from town halls.  When you've done that, come back to me, and I'll promote you to Bounty Hunters.  "	First time Bounty Hunter	Ebednezer Sour
181	"I'll be blunt.  I don't think I like you.  You'll have to prove to me you're worth something.  Soon, you will have to choose if you'll follow the Path of Dark or the Path of Light.  If you choose Light, don't even bother speaking to me again.  Got it?"	No arbiter	Ebednezer Sour
182	"Gahhh!  I can smell the stink of self righteousness on you!  Get away from me!  G'won, get!"	Party good	Ebednezer Sour
183	"So, how did if feel?  All that killing?  Mmmmm.  Heh.  You qualify, my friends.  You definitely qualify.  All Hunters amongst you are now Bounty Hunters, and all Honorary hunters and Honorary Bounty Hunters!  Good job."	Success	Ebednezer Sour
184	"Not yet, not good enough!  You need to collect more bounties, and more importantly, kill more creatures.  There's some good clean fun in that.  Killing, don't you know."	Fail	Ebednezer Sour
185	"Come to my door looking for magic?  Thee've always had it, if thee knew where to look.  Some I tell this to, and they still can't see it, though it be plain as the nose on their face.  Those amongst thee that are simple Rangers are now Hunters, and those who aren't are but Honorary Hunters.  Clever the ones who can knock on my door!"	Hunter end promo	Faerie King
186	"The thieves reached deep inside me to take my Heart.  The grapevines say they are hiding in the Mercenary Guild in Tatalia.  We would squeeze them, but they aren't close enough to reach.  Walkers are needed to catch walkers.  Catch the thieves for us.  Ok?"	First time Heart of Wood	Oldest Tree
187	Ahhh!  [The tree sighs happily]  You have the heart!  The forest sings with joy!  Tonight we will recite the song of the ancestors.  Will you stay and recite with us?	Success	Oldest Tree
188	"Oh, the forest is still very angry.  The grapevines say the thieves have not left their hiding place.  You will catch the thieves for us, won't you?"	Fail	Oldest Tree
189	"Priests.  You have come to me seeking that I be your guide on the Path of Light.  But be warned, to learn its ways, you must learn the ways of your own soul.  I would suggest that we meditate on this for awhile, but you look like you're in a hurry.  South of Bracada is an island called Evenmorn, and upon that island are the old temples of the Sun and the Moon.  Both are inhabited by the remnants of the two religions, their once proud churches reduced to two old temples fighting for a small island.

The Church of the Sun was the founding religion for our current faith, the Path of Light.  I propose we help them out and tip the balance in favor of the Church of the Sun.  Using the map that Daedalus Falk sent you to find in order to become priests, convince a sea captain to bring you to the island.  There, bring aid and comfort to the Church of the Sun by purifying the altar in the Church of the Moon.  This will so weaken the Moon cult that the Church of the Sun will be able to overcome them in battle.  Return to me when you have done this.   "	First time Priest of Light	Rebecca Devine
190	"If you wish to follow the Path of Light, first you must formally choose it.  Soon you will be asked to make the choice, and the way will be clear.  Until then, I cannot be your guide."	No arbiter	Rebecca Devine
191	"If you wish to become Priests of the Light, you must first become Priests.  I don't have time to train priests, but my bitter rival, Daedalus Falk, does.  Do not worry, he will promote you fairly, even if you do not wish to follow the terrible path of darkness that he represents."	No priest	Rebecca Devine
192	"You've come to the wrong person if you want to be promoted beyond priest.  I am well aware of your choice to follow the Path of the Dark, and I will have nothing to do with you."	Party evil	Rebecca Devine
193	"Your bravery has advanced our faith tremendously, Priests.  It's with a glad heart that I can hereby promote all Priests to Priests of the Light, and all honorary Priests to Honorary Priests of the Light.  Thank you so much for your help!"	Success	Rebecca Devine
194	You must visit Evenmorn island and purify the Altar of Darkness in the Church of the Moon.  Only then can I promote you to Priests of the Light.	Fail	Rebecca Devine
195	"[Falk gives you a grandfatherly smile] You have, perhaps, an ambition to be priests?  I can help you, if you'll help me.  There is an island south of Bracada where stands an old temple that I need to find again.  I think the pirates west of Erathia must know where the island is.  The Erathian navy is rather feeble, and hasn't been able to root them out of their hiding places amongst the Tidewater Caverns.  Perhaps the pirates have a map.  If you can bring me that map, I would promote you to Priest status immediately."	First time Priest	Daedalus Falk
196	"The Map!  You found it!  [Falk looks at the map, and points at the island] There it is.  The island has been shrouded in mist since the Churches of the Sun and Moon began fighting over a century ago.  Keep the map--I have the coordinates now, and will have no trouble finding the place when I need to.  I am proud to declare the Clerics amongst you to be Priests, and the rest to be honorary Priests.  Thank you so much for your good work!"	Success	Daedalus Falk
197	"If there is a map that says where that island is, the map would be in the Tidewater Caverns of western Erathia.  When you bring me that map, then I will be happy to promote you all to Priests."	Fail	Daedalus Falk
198	"Priests.  [Falk gazes coldly at you] Well it is that you have come to see the wisdom of the Path of the Dark.  Never regret your decision, and never look back.  South of Bracada is an island called Evenmorn, and upon that island are the old temples of the Sun and the Moon.  Both are inhabited by the remnants of the two religions, their once proud churches reduced to two old temples fighting for a small island.

The Church of the Moon was the founding religion for our current faith, the Path of Darkness.  I propose we help them out and tip the balance in favor of the Church of the Moon.  Using the map that I sent you to find, convince a sea captain to bring you to the island.  There, bring aid and comfort to the Church of the Moon by defiling the altar in the Church of the Sun.  This will so weaken the Sun cult that the Church of the Moon will be able to overcome them in battle.  Return to me when you have done this.   "	First time Priest of Dark	Daedalus Falk
199	"If you wish to follow the Path of Darkness, first you must formally choose it.  Soon you will be asked to make the choice, and the way will be clear.  Until then, I cannot be your guide."	No arbiter	Daedalus Falk
200	"How dare you insult me with your presence?  You have chosen the Path of the Light, and have forever renounced me as your teacher.  Go now, and wallow in your weakness somewhere else."	Party good	Daedalus Falk
201	"Your bravery has advanced our faith tremendously, Priests.  It's with pleasure that I can hereby promote all Priests to Priests of the Dark, and all honorary Priests to Honorary Priests of the Dark.  Thank you so much for your help!"	Success	Daedalus Falk
202	You must visit Evenmorn island and defile the Altar of Light in the Church of the Sun.  Only then can I promote you to Priests of the Dark.	Fail	Daedalus Falk
203	"I am indeed the one to speak to if you wish to become Wizards.  Every student of mine must complete a project before I name them Wizards.  This year's project is to build a golem.  There are spare parts scattered about the lands from here to Avlee.  You'll need all four limbs plus the torso and the head.  Pay special attention to where you get the head--one of my students made a mistake while making a head last summer and gave the defective head away as a joke.  

When you have all the parts, come talk to me.  I'll promote you to Wizards then, and I'll animate your Golem.  Well, on your way, and have fun!"	First time Wizard	Thomas Grey
204	"[You proudly display your assembled golem to Master Grey, and he nods approvingly] Well done.  Head looks alright, but you can never be sure…Well, good work!  Clearly, you qualify for Wizard status.  All Sorcerers amongst you are now Wizards, and all non Sorcerers are now honorary Wizards!  [Master Grey spends awhile casting the spell that animates your golem] He's all yours!  Take him back to your castle and put him where you want.  He'll attack intruders relentlessly.  "	Success	Thomas Grey
205	"You have to have all the parts together and properly assembled for me to animate it, students!  I can't animate incomplete golems."	Fail	Thomas Grey
206	"Welcome back, students.  The golem lesson was just an exercise, but to advance to Archmage, you really have to do something for the profession.  Copies of the fabled Divine Intervention spell are very rare, and unfortunately the School doesn't have one.  There's been a history of bad luck regarding the spell.

It has been around for time immemorial, but the spell has never found its way into our hands.  Always just out of reach, we often send guild members to find it, but every one has failed.  Sometimes they have it in their hands, but lose it on the way back, other times, the book seems to vanish, only to resurface 20 years later in some old dungeon, or on a deserted island.  Right now, we think it's in the Breeding Zone in the Pit.  Find the spell, and return with it.  Break the curse!"	First time Archmage	Thomas Grey
207	"Archmage training is reserved only for people dedicated to the Path of Light.  Prove to me you have chosen the right way, and I will be proud to be your teacher."	No arbiter	Thomas Grey
208	"You've chosen Darkness, my students.  I will teach you no more."	Party evil	Thomas Grey
209	"The book!  The book!  [Master Grey clutches his ears and spins around in joy] You did it!  Oh, what a wonderful day!  I am so proud of you!  You're all Archmages!  Of course, if you weren't Wizards to begin with, it's only an honorary title, but who cares?  You found the book!  [The Master sets the book down on a table next to a blank book.  Both open simultaneously, and quill arises from the desk to begin copying the text in the new book] You may keep the copy, and you should start seeing more copies in the Light guilds of Bracada and Celeste."	Success	Thomas Grey
210	"I expect trouble finding the book, which is why I'm sending you to find it.  I know you can succeed in this mission.  Keep trying!"	Fail	Thomas Grey
211	"Fear not death?  I can perform the Ritual on any Wizard.  You need a Soul Jar.  Years ago the Wizards stole a shipment of Jars en route from Nighon to Deyja.  The jars are very hard to destroy, so they hid them, thinking we would never be able to find them.

Fortunately for us, dead men do indeed tell tales.  Better, in fact, than living ones--dead men never forget, never refuse to talk, and never lie.  So, we found the one who buried the Jars, and made him die.  He was very cooperative after his death, and said he hid them somewhere in the Walls of Mist for the Wizards in Celeste. 

Retrieve these jars and I will perform the Ritual on all Wizards amongst you.  The rest may become Honorary Liches, for what that's worth, in thanks for finding the extra Jars for us."	First time Lich	Halfgild Wynac
212	"If you haven't even become Wizards yet, you aren't ready to become Liches.  Trouble me not 'til you're qualified."	No wizard	Halfgild Wynac
213	Only followers of the Dark Path can become Liches.  You have not yet chosen the path.  Return when you choose Darkness.	No arbiter	Halfgild Wynac
214	"Having chosen the path of Light, you are not suited to become Liches.  The Ritual would reject you, and you would die a real death.  If that is what you want, you certainly don't need my help…"	Party good	Halfgild Wynac
215	"Jars.  Yessss.  You have helped us greatly.  Now for the Ritual.  [The Lich draws a knife, and approaches you]  This won't hurt a bit!  [The ritual actually hurts quite a bit, and takes several hours to complete.  When it is over, the Lich speaks again]  So, now it is done.  Those among you who were Wizards are now most certainly Liches.  Those who were not, have my gratitude for returning the jars, and I will call you ""Honorary Liches"".  Remember, Liches must keep their Soul Jars with them at all times while they travel.  You cannot be separated from your Jar for long, or you will die a real death."	Success	Halfgild Wynac
216	"I have no spare Jars with which to perform the Ritual.  It is impossible for me to promote you until you return with the Jars.  Remember, each one of you must have a Jar to be Promoted."	Fail	Halfgild Wynac
217	"Advancement as a Druid is simple.  You must visit the three ancient temples to nature we erected centuries ago and pray at their centers.  They are in Tatalia, Evenmorn Isle, and Avlee, and look like circles of stone with an altar of water in their centers.  Where exactly I will not say, but exploring the land about them is part of the process.  When you have visited all three Circles, return to me to detail your experience."	First time Great Druid	Anthony Green
218	"Visit the Circles, then return to me.  That is the process.  "	No stonehenges	Anthony Green
219	"You've found a circle!  Very good, but you must find all three before you will be ready for promotion.  Remember, circles three, then return to me."	At least one stonehenge	Anthony Green
220	"I have only to look into your eyes to see where you've been.  You have seen the circles, and they have left their imprint upon you.  Telling you that all Druids amongst you are now Great Druids is but a formality.  Telling the rest of you that you're now honorary Druids is showing you respect for the respect you have shown me and my faith.  "	Success	Anthony Green
221	"To be named an Arch Druid, you must serve the land.  I know of a service you could perform.  In the land above Stone City, where the Dwarves bury their dead, is the barrow of King Zokarr IV.  He died fighting in defense of Stone City during the invasion of Erathia by Nighon.  His remains were never recovered and still lie in those tunnels.    

Retrieve his bones and place them in his coffin in his barrow.  When you have done this, the King will rest, and so will the land.  Return to me when you've performed this service, and I will perform the Ceremony of Ascension and name you Arch Druids."	First time Arch Druid	Anthony Green
222	I am dedicated to the service of the Light.  I will not promote you further until you are as dedicated as I.  Come back to me when you choose the Light.	No arbiter	Anthony Green
223	"Servants of Darkness, I am sorry I promoted you earlier.  I am ashamed I didn't notice the darkness in your souls until it was too late.  Leave me."	Party evil	Anthony Green
224	"[Master Green seems beside himself with joy at your accomplishment] I felt the King's soul return to the land of the dead when you returned his bones.  The land breathed a sigh of relief--did you feel it?  

The Ceremony of Ascension is complete.  I'm happy to promote all Great Druids amongst you to Arch Druids, and all honorary Great Druids to Honorary Arch Druids.  This is a very happy day!  Your service will be remembered!"	Success	Anthony Green
225	"The Service is not easy, but it needs to be done.  Remember, you must bring the bones of King Zokarr IV from where they lie in the tunnels between Stone City and Nighon to Zokarr's coffin in a secret dwarven barrow.  Only then can I perform the Ceremony of Ascension and promote you."	Fail	Anthony Green
226	"Becoming a Warlock for some is a simple process, and for others it is nearly impossible.  You need to find a familiar suited to your personality.  The familiar will help to focus your magical abilities and sharpen your concentration.  Sometimes a single familiar can be shared, other times not.  The magical effects will not be noticed by anyone but a Great Druid--someone who is already attuned to nature.  Now, let me see what kind of familiar you will need...[Tor picks up an elaborately carved gem and peers at you through it.  He frowns.]  Hmm.  Well, the good news is that you all need the same familiar, and when you find it, you will be very powerful.  The bad news is that you need to find a dragon familiar.  

You must find a dragon egg.  Bring them back here and I will hatch it, and cast the familiar spell.  The baby dragon will imprint to you all, and you to it.  You may be able to find an egg in a dragon cave in the Land of the Giants.  'Ware the mother, though."	First time Warlock	Tor Anwyn
227	"I would love to get you started on the way to becoming Warlocks, but nothing I can do for you will be of any use until you become Great Druids.  Return when you have achieved that level of understanding."	No Great Druid	Tor Anwyn
228	"Though I like to think of the Warlocks as being followers of the Path of Twilight, or Dawn, we are technically followers of the Path of Darkness.  You must be dedicated followers of Darkness before I can help you.  "	No arbiter	Tor Anwyn
229	"Hmmmm.  [Tor looks at you carefully]  Nope.  Can't teach you.  You chose the Path of Light.  I can smell it on you.  I can sympathize with your choice, but I know that none of our spells or rituals can promote you once you have started down that path.  Sorry."	Party good	Tor Anwyn
230	"[Tor looks at you in astonishment] You really found a dragon egg!  It's been more than a century since any Warlock has both needed and found a dragon familiar!  This will go down in the history books, that's for sure!  My spell book!  I need my book!  Ah, here it is.  [Tor chants a spell from the book, then taps the egg three times.  The egg hatches, and a baby dragon crawls out of the shell]  There you are!  Awww, isn't he cute?  Congratulations!  No longer are you simple Great Druids, but Warlocks!  Of course, that's just an honorary title if you weren't a natural Great Druid to begin with, but nonetheless, something to be proud of.  "	Success	Tor Anwyn
231	You need to bring me a dragon's egg so you I can hatch your familiar.  There is no way around this.  Try looking in the Land of the Giants for a dragon cave-- perhaps there you can find an egg.	Fail	Tor Anwyn
232	You prepare the torso for assembly with the rest of the parts.	Golem torso	Golem
233	You prepare the left leg for assembly with the rest of the parts.	Golem left leg	Golem
234	You prepare the right leg for assembly with the rest of the parts.	Golem right leg	Golem
235	You prepare the left arm for assembly with the rest of the parts.	Golem left arm	Golem
236	You prepare the right arm for assembly with the rest of the parts.	Golem right arm	Golem
237	You prepare the head for assembly with the rest of the parts.	Golem head	Golem
238	You prepare the head (with a dent in it) for assembly with the rest of the parts.	Golem Abbey head	Golem
239	You have no parts to assemble yet.	No parts	Golem
240	You have all the parts together!  Now you just have to return to Master Grey for the animation process.	All parts	Golem
241	You remove the normal head and replace it with the dented head.	Swap normal for Abbey	Golem
242	You remove the dented head and replace it with the normal head.	Swap Abbey for normal	Golem
243	"You should not be reading this message.  This means that you somehow have triggered this event without holding the normal or Abbey normal Golem heads which, based on the preconditions for this event, is absolutely impossible.  Please tell Bryan that he lost his bet and owes Keith 5 bucks because this event doesn't work properly."	Error	Golem
244	"Thank heavens you've cleaned them out!  Now we need to find a way to clean up the castle and rebuild the damaged sections.  The only people I can think of who would have the inclination and the ability to do this are the Dwarves in Stone City, located in the Barrow Downs to the south.  The entrance to Stone City lies in the center of the Barrow Downs on one of the largest hills.  "	Success	Butler
245	"I fear that talking will fail with these goblins, my lords.  May I suggest violence?"	Fail	Butler
246	"So…The new lords of Harmondale I have before me.  Not impressed.  Doubt other kings think much of you either.  Hrmph.  Probably get yourselves killed soon.  But maybe there's more than meets the eye here.  Yes.  Maybe you can do something for me, and I for you.  Medusas have taken my mines in eastern Bracada.  Turned a few of my people to stone.  Dangerous monsters, don't want to lose more lives on a rescue.  Ok to lose yours though.  

Take this elixir and pour it on the statues.  Wake them up.  Then I will fix up your castle.  Give you respect.  Go now, and beware the griffins in Bracada.  "	First time dwarf rescue	Dwarf King
247	"Welcome back, Lords of Harmondale!  Now, I will help you.  My engineer will work for you.  Fix up your castle.  You have my thanks.  You are welcome here forever.

Hmmph.  One more thing.  Your work has interested the other courts.  They will send ambassadors to you now--check your throne room.  Watch your back, my friends."	Success	Dwarf King
248	"Back again, eh?  Your part of the bargain isn't finished.  No help 'til you're done.  "	Fail	Dwarf King
249	"Your Queen wishes to speak with you as soon as possible.  Since the War, she has taken up residence at Gryphonheart Castle in Steadwick.  This is strictly business--whenever new lords assume their office she meets with them to make sure there are no misunderstandings.  Queen Catherine is particularly interested in you, and has told me she wishes to employ your services."	Talk to my boss	Ellen Rockway
250	I've received word that you met with the Queen.  I hope it went well.	Talked to my boss	Ellen Rockway
251	"The queen is very pleased with you!  The rescue operation went well, and Loren can no longer be held as a bargaining chip for that wicked King Parson!  When the current Harmondale conflict is over, I'm sure the Queen will reward you for your aid."	Finished my quest	Ellen Rockway
252	"The Queen tells me your loyalty is very strong.  You did the right thing when you informed the Queen of the treachery King Parson was plotting.  And I'll tell you this:  Your loyalty is not only strong, but it is well placed.  Harmondale is the rightful province of Erathia, despite Elvish claims to the contrary.  Your work for us helps to ensure that Harmondale will forever be in the hands of Humans."	Betrayed the other side	Ellen Rockway
253	"[Lady Ellen gasps in delight] You have Gryphonheart's Trumpet!  This is wonderful!  When it disappeared from the strongbox, we thought it had been stolen by the enemy!  Thank you for bringing it back to us!"	Artifact	Ellen Rockway
254	"Gryphonheart's Trumpet was no doubt stolen by the Elven raiding party.  You were too late to save it.  [Lady Ellen sighs] Well, this is bad, but I suppose we've suffered much worse disasters."	Failed the quest	Ellen Rockway
255	I've learned from Queen Catherine that you betrayed us with the old false prisoner trick.  [Lady Ellen curtsies respectfully] Your skills in the art of deception are formidable.  I will be sure not to be tricked so easily by your sincere manner again.	Betrayed us	Ellen Rockway
256	"Though Avlee is not currently in charge of Harmondale, my King, Eldrich Parson of Avlee, lays claim to this territory as our rightful domain.  The reasons are complicated, but boil down to the simple fact that Erathia stole our land in the Timber Wars many years ago, and we will not give up until we have it back.  My King wishes to speak with you.  Please travel to Pierpont in the Tularean Forest and meet with him.  We will make it worth your while."	Talk to my boss	Alain Hani
257	Messengers have informed me of your visit with my King.  I hope you can see now why we are the rightful rulers of Harmondale.  	Talked to my boss	Alain Hani
258	"I've heard of your daring infiltration of Fort Riverstride, and I am impressed!  Our strategists are analyzing the plans now, and they say the information will be very useful in any assault they mount against the Fort.  You have Avlee's gratitude!"	Finished my quest	Alain Hani
259	"Word from Court is that you rejected a request from Erathia to break that spy Loren Steel out of prison.  Not only that, you helped us plant a false prisoner who has been feeding them misinformation ever since he got there.  Avlee is in your debt!"	Betrayed the other side	Alain Hani
260	"You have Gryphonheart's Trumpet!  Excellent!  We lost track of it during the raid, and were afraid that one of the Erathians got away with it.  Thank you very much for your help!"	Artifact	Alain Hani
261	"It seems our raid on the Erathians has failed, and they or someone else got away with the Trumpet.  [Ambassador Alain shakes his head sadly] Maybe next time things will go our way."	Failed the quest	Alain Hani
262	"I've received a warning from my superiors regarding your delivery of falsified plans from Erathia.  The King is not amused. And there was some concern that you had more treachery in store for us.  [Alain smiles, true to his profession] All's fair in love and war, so it's all water under the bridge, eh?  Yes, all is forgotten.  [The ambassador chuckles heartily].  "	Betrayed us	Alain Hani
263	"[Queen Catherine inclines her head regally] You are the lot that won Lord Markham's silly contest, I see.  I must admit I had little faith until the Dwarf King recognized you as the rightful rulers of Harmondale.  You must have done something to win his respect, or he would have nothing to do with you.  I'm still not sure what he saw in you, but perhaps there really is something of substance here.  We shall see.

Maybe you can do something for me that would make me think I should let you keep your new titles.  Recently, a valuable...agent of mine was arrested in the Tularean Forest for merely doing his job.  They're keeping him in a cave somewhere outside of Pierpont.  His name is Loren Steel, and they are threatening to execute him if certain unacceptable conditions are not met in 28 days.  Return with him before then and you will win respect, gold, and gratitude."	First time Prisoner of War	Queen Catherine
264	"[Catherine stands and smiles] Good job!  You've really solved a terrible dilemma for me.  [Catherine turns to Loren and shakes his hand] Loren.  It's good to meet you at last.  Since everyone knows who you are now, you're not much good to me as a spy, but I would like to offer you a job in the Royal Diplomatic Corps.  Please give it some thought.  As for our heroes, you have my thanks.  My purser will credit your bank account with 5000 gold pieces for your services.   "	Success	Queen Catherine
265	"Loren's life is on the line.  I cannot give into the Elvish demands, or many more lives will be lost.  Please hurry.  I'm sure Avlee will execute him on schedule."	Fail	Queen Catherine
266	"[Catherine stands and smiles] Good job!  You've really solved a terrible dilemma for me.  [Catherine turns to the false Loren and shakes his hand] Loren.  It's good to meet you at last.  Since everyone knows who you are now, you're not much good to me as a spy, but I would like to offer you a job in the Royal Diplomatic Corps.  Please give it some thought.  As for our heroes, you have my thanks.   "	Betrayal	Queen Catherine
267	[The Queen's eyes narrow] What's this?  You're admitting to treachery?  How noble.  Guards!  Off with their heads!	Fake prisoner	Queen Catherine
268	"King Parson asked you to steal the floor plan to Fort Riverstride?  Hmmm.  [Catherine turns to one of her advisors] Have some false plans of Fort Riverstride drawn up.  Make it painful.  [She turns back to you] If it's plans he wants, it's plans he'll get.  Give these plans to the King.  I'm sure he'll be grateful.  Make sure you don't let him know they're fake.  [After awhile the advisor returns with the plans and gives them to you]  You'll need to get the plans back to him on time, of course.  I'm sure he plans to attack us soon."	First time Riverstride plans	Queen Catherine
269	"He took the plans?  Excellent!  I'll have the Riverstride commander roll out the red carpet for them.  As for you, I've instructed my purser to deposit 5,000 gold pieces in your account."	Success	Queen Catherine
270	"You have to get the plans to him before he attacks Riverstride.  If you don't, they won't lead his forces into all the traps we've prepared for them.  So hurry up and deliver those plans!  I'm counting on you!"	Fail	Queen Catherine
271	"You told the king the plans were fake?!?  [The Queen puts her hand on her head, jaw agape] I have never seen such incompetence in all my life!  Astounding!  Get out of my sight!  Just go!  "	Idiots	Queen Catherine
272	"[The Queen raises her eyebrows with interest as you tell her how you infiltrated her fort, stole secret plans, and killed many of her guards while in the service of a foreign king] I wish I could truthfully say this is the most shocking treason I have ever witnessed, but unfortunately, it's not.  Nonetheless...Guards!  Off with their heads!"	We stole the plans	Queen Catherine
273	"Well, time ran out for poor Loren.  He was executed for espionage by Avlee on schedule.  Don't bother with the rescue.  He's gone."	Time ran out - Prisoner	Queen Catherine
274	King Parson is beyond the date when he could have used those false papers.  Don't bother taking them to him--it doesn't matter anymore.  	Time ran out - Riverstride	Queen Catherine
275	"Welcome.  I understand you've been appointed Lords of Harmondale by that idiot Markham.  You know, I WILL restore Avlee's rule over Harmondale--the only question is whether you are with me, or against me.  If you're with me, I will ensure that you retain your post.  Against me, and I will have done with you once my armies occupy your lands.  

[King Parson smiles affably] So, of course you're with me!  You just need to prove it.  Like a famous leader once said:  Trust, but verify!  Words to live by.  What I want right now is the plans to Fort Riverstride.  It's a huge fort that stands between your lands and Erathia proper.  You can't miss the thing.  Sneak in there and get me those plans.  If you can do this, I will be in your debt.  Not only that, there's a substantial gold reward as well.  If the plans are to be any use to me at all, though, I need them delivered to me within a month."	First time Riverstride plans	ElfKing
276	"[The King smiles broadly as you hand him the plans]  Thank you!  These will be VERY useful.  My factor will deposit 5,000 gold pieces in your bank account for services rendered.  When we finally win this round against Erathia, I will not forget you."	Success	ElfKing
277	"I really do need those plans soon.  If you take too long, I'll have to prepare my attack without the plans."	Fail	ElfKing
278	"[The King smiles broadly as you hand him the false plans.  Sucker! ]  Thank you!  These will be VERY useful.  When we finally win this round against Erathia, I will not forget you."	Betrayal	ElfKing
279	"What do you mean, these plans are false?  So you admit to plotting against me?  [The King throws up his hands in disgust] Guards!  Take these traitors to the courtyard and execute them!"	Fake plans	ElfKing
280	"The wily queen moves against me, eh?  [The King frowns in thought, then brightens] I have an idea!  I know someone who looks just like that spy she wants you to rescue.  Bring my man with you and deliver him to the Queen.  She's never met him, and won't know the difference.  His 'inside information' will encourage her to make mistakes.  [The King takes a moment to summon the imposter]  Be careful not to tip your hand.  It wouldn't do for her to discover our little plan.  "	First time Prison Break	ElfKing
281	"The imposter has infiltrated her military and diplomatic advisors' ranks, and will cause plenty of damage before he's discovered, I'm sure.  Thank you for your help! My factor will deposit 5000 gold into your account at the bank."	Success	ElfKing
282	"It's important to get the imposter to the Queen before Mr. Steel's scheduled execution.  After all, you can't rescue Mr. Steel if everyone knows I've executed him.  And she'll become suspicious if I stay the execution.  I've never stayed one before."	Fail	ElfKing
283	You told Queen Catherine about the imposter?!? I can't believe my ears!  Why did you do it?  Why?  [The King stands and points at the door] Get out!	Idiots	ElfKing
284	"[The king is silent while you detail your crimes against Avlee, then smiles and spreads his hands once you've finished] Well!  I suppose that story speaks for itself, doesn't it?  Guards!  Take these traitors to the courtyard and execute them!"	We rescued Loren	ElfKing
285	"The time where I could have used those plans is over.  Thanks for any efforts you may have put into finding them, but I no longer need the plans."	Time ran out - Riverstride	ElfKing
286	The execution date for Loren Steel has passed.  Don't bother bringing the imposter to the Queen--she'll be too suspicious for our ruse to succeed.  He'll be leaving you now.	Time ran out - Prisoner	ElfKing
287	"My loyal subjects!  You were the ones who took the Trumpet!  Good work.  We thought it lost forever.  Once again, my purser will deposit gold in your account.  5,000 gold, to be exact."	Artifact	Queen Catherine
288	"Ah, the Trumpet!  You captured it!  We weren't sure how things turned out when news of the human raid reached us.  Thank you again, my friends.  My factor will deposit 5,000 gold in your account for your services."	Artifact	ElfKing
289	"If there is one piece of advice I could give you, it would be to fix your castle.  I don't know how you're going to find the gold and workers to do it, as only wealthy nobles and kings can afford such large scale projects.  I suppose it's the old chicken and egg question...you must appear noble to gain wealth and respect, but you must have wealth and respect in order to appear noble.  

In any event, if you expect to be lords of Harmondale for more than a few months, you need to find a way to prove you're not just lucky peasants.  You must prove that you're fit to rule."	Build Castle	Arbiter hint
290	"Once again, the Human kingdom of Erathia and the Elvish kingdom of Harmondale are fighting.  As the local Judge, it has fallen to me to patch up their differences and bring the two sides to the negotiating table.  The two sides are so evenly matched that either could prevail.  [The judge leans closer to you, lowering his voice] And I'll tell you something else--I don't much care anymore who wins.  They are like children fighting over a toy.  Neither really wants Harmondale--they just want to deny it to the other.  

So, you're on your own.  Whatever actions you take now in support of one side or another could really make a difference.  Just remember that they couldn't possibly care less what happens to you or who rules in Harmondale.  Protect yourselves and your people first.  We didn't have this conversation."	Elf vs. Human	Arbiter hint
291	You were wise to return the Trumpet to me.  Now I can use it to help shore up the weak side in this conflict and promote peace.  Thank you.  	Artifact	Arbiter artifact
292	"A wise decision.  You won't regret this--believe me.  I knew you were going to make this decision, and my bags are already packed and ready to go.  All you need to do now is get me to my new home, and I'll take care of the rest."	I choose you!	Evil Arbiter
293	"Your first order of business is to talk to Lord Ironfist and complete his 'mission.'  Once your ability and loyalty are proven, you will be allowed to help in more…interesting… ways."	Hint - Proving Ground	Evil Arbiter
294	"Each of the advisors to Lord Ironfist has a task for you, complete each one.  Talk to Kastore, Dark Shade, and Maaximus for more information.  The completion of these tasks is vital for our future."	Hint - Tasks	Evil Arbiter
295	Tolberti has a mission of great importance.  Everything we've staked so far rests on its completion.  Prepare well for his task or you will certainly fail.	Hint - Kill Opposing person	Evil Arbiter
296	Xenofex and the rest of the Kreegan must be put down; go to their 'hive' in the Land of the Giants and put a stop to Xenofex and his minions once and for all.	Hint - Get devil part	Evil Arbiter
297	"You will need to visit the craft that brought Kastore and his men to Erathia to continue.  Go west of Avlee, and make sure to be properly outfitted."	Hint - Do the ship	Evil Arbiter
298	Bring the Oscillation Overthruster back to Kastore with all possible speed!  Every moment you dally allows a chance for failure!	Hint - Return piece	Evil Arbiter
299	"Great!  You've done the right thing!  Though the path of light can be hard to walk at times, the ultimate rewards are well worth it.  I'm already prepared for the trip.  All you need to do now is get me to my new home, and I'll take care of the rest."	I choose you!	Good Arbiter
300	"First, you need to speak to Gavin Magnus in Celeste and complete his training.  After you have proven your ability and loyalty you will learn more about your role in the future of Erathia."	Hint - Proving Ground	Good Arbiter
301	"Each of Gavin's advisors has a task for you.  Talk to Resurectra, Sir Caneghem, and Crag Hack for more information.  Do not fail in these missions- in them rests the balance of the future."	Hint - Tasks	Good Arbiter
302	"Robert the Wise has a regrettable, but necessary, mission for you to complete.  For any of our plans to continue, this mission must succeed.  Prepare most carefully for the task, or you invite certain failure."	Hint - Kill Opposing person	Good Arbiter
303	"The Kreegan, the Devils, and their leader Xenofex must be destroyed completely for the plan to have any long-term benefit.  You will find their 'hive' in the Land of the Giants."	Hint - Get devil part	Good Arbiter
304	To the west of Avlee lies the craft that Resurectra and her associates used to come to Erathia.  Visit the ship and retrieve the Oscillation Overthruster to insure our victory.  Make sure to be properly outfitted for the journey.	Hint - Do the ship	Good Arbiter
305	Bring the Oscillation Overthruster back to Resurectra immediately!  Every moment wastes valuable time!	Hint - Return piece	Good Arbiter
306	"The Test involves entering the 'front door' of the Walls of Mist, and exiting through the 'back door'.  I use the word 'door' loosely--you'll see when you get there.  You will not need your weapons.  You will fail the test if you kill any creature in the Walls of Mist.  If you can complete this task, you will be given membership in the Guild of Light. Good luck."	First Time Good Proving Grounds	Gavin Magnus
307	"You passed the Test!  That's quite an achievement--few succeed as quickly as you did.  My advisors are now eager to speak to  you; they can be found in the four houses on the eastern side of Celeste.  Once again, congratulations!"	Success	Gavin Magnus
308	"Remember, you must enter through the front door of the Walls of Mist, and exit through the back door.  You must not kill any creatures in the Walls of Mist.  When you have done this, return to me."	Fail	Gavin Magnus
309	"We need your help retrieving half of a key to a very important place from our enemies, the Necromancers.  Like us, they have enshrined their half of the key in their highest temple--The Temple of the Dark.  I'm under no illusions this will be easy.  Take your time and act when you're prepared.  Also, bring our half of the key to us, as well.  It is enshrined in the Temple of the Light.  Since you're our ally, no one should trouble you when you go there to fetch the key.  By the same token, please don't harm any of them, either."	First Time Temple of Dark	Resurectra
310	"No key halves yet, I see.  Well, take your time.  It must be done eventually, and sooner is better than later, but later is better than being chained to an altar and sacrificed by the High Priest of the Dark in one of their bloody rituals.  Just bring back both halves of the key from the temples of Dark and Light, and try not to get yourselves killed doing it."	Fail	Resurectra
311	"Well, I'm glad you found our half of the key, but you still need their half.  Hold onto it until you get the other half.  When you have both halves, return to me.  I will make them whole."	Light not Dark	Resurectra
312	"Good work on retrieving their half of the key, but you still need ours.  It is located in the Temple of the Light here in Celeste."	Dark not Light	Resurectra
313	"I knew you could do it!  Never doubted you for a second!  [You hand her the key halves, and she joins them by running a finger along the crack between them.  It mends before your eyes, good as new] Finally!  One piece of the plan is in place.  Your assistance has been invaluable.  We are already in your debt, and I expect we'll be even deeper in debt before our plan comes to fruition.  So have faith in us awhile longer--the future we're planning will astound you!"	Success	Resurectra
314	"Our plans rapidly approach their conclusion, but there is a hitch.  The Kreegan--also known as the Devils, or the Demons, must be destroyed before we finish our plans.  They represent a terrible threat, and though they do little but lick their wounds today, will one day regain their strength and devastate the world.  If anything we do is to have lasting effect, we must first destroy these monsters for once and for all.

You are strong, but not strong enough to defeat the devils on your own.  They are vulnerable to the brand of magic most commonly wielded by the Necromancers, and less so by our own Wizards.  It is imperative that you infiltrate the Devil's base and kill their leader Xenofex.  That should end their threat to this world for some time.  The Warlocks have dug a tunnel from their volcano to the Land of the Giants-- the land the Devils claim as their own.  Perhaps you can use that."	First Time Strike the Devils	Resurectra
315	"YOU ARE HEROES!!!  Your work against the devils was masterful!  And the rescue of King Roland was as delightful as it was unexpected.  History will never forget your names for doing what you just did!  I, for one, am very proud to know you.  "	Success	Resurectra
316	"I guess there's no hurry getting this job done, but we don't want the Necromancers to grow bored waiting for us to do our part and destroy the blocker.  So, please, as soon as you feel ready you must attack the Devils.  Remember that the Warlocks have dug a tunnel from their volcano to the land of the Devils.  You should be able to use that to get yourselves there."	Fail	Resurectra
317	"Our allies in Tatalia have been complaining for some time of a mysterious presence.  There have been numerous deaths and disappearances for the last few months, and they've asked us if we knew anything about it.  I think I do.  I suspect a vampire is preying on Tatalia.  I don't have time to pursue the question myself, but to keep our allies happy, I'm asking you to please look into it.  It's possible the monster's presence has deeper implications than just bad luck for Tatalia."	First Time Vampires	Crag Hack
318	"Just as I suspected!  Good work.  With the death of the Vampire, Tatalia can sleep a bit easier now.  Queen Catherine is grateful as well, and has been making moves to further strengthen the ties between Bracada and Erathia."	Success	Crag Hack
319	"Keep looking for that Vampire.  I'm sure that's our problem, and he must be somewhere in or near Tatalia.  "	Fail	Crag Hack
320	"The plan involves stealing the soul jars the Necromancers rely on to prolong their miserable lives.  They have them hidden somewhere in their Guild Castle, and are probably not prepared for the kind of small scale assault you people are so good at.  A quick strike--in and out--should do the trick.  Don't hang around the castle too long, or reinforcements will arrive, and try to get it right the first time, or they will permanently double their patrols.  Once you have the soul jars, bring them back here so we can dispose of them properly."	First Time Soul Jars	Sir Caneghm
321	"[Sir Caneghem looks at the jars curiously, as though observing a poisonous snake behind glass] So these are soul jars.  I expected something more…impressive, I suppose.  Good job!  [he takes the case of jars] I will make sure these jars are never seen again."	Success	Sir Caneghm
322	Be well prepared when you go for the jars.  Their security won't be so lax if you have to retreat and return.  	Fail	Sir Caneghm
323	"Our counterparts, the former advisors to Archibald, each carry a token called a command cube on their person that we absolutely must acquire to complete the Goal.  There is no way any of them will part with their cube willingly, which means that we must get it some other way.  You will have to take it from one of them, and we think the easiest would be Tolberti.  Unlike the rest of them, he disdains proper security and has taken up residence in one of the apartments in the Pit.  I need you to infiltrate the pit again and get the cube from him.  Be careful--he is well armed and much tougher than he appears.  When you have the Cube, return to me.  We have but a short distance to the Goal, and all will be revealed very soon."	First Time Tolberti	Robert the Wise
324	"[Robert takes the cube] Once again, you succeed!  The Goal is so close!  I know you have many questions, and I'm sure Resurectra will answer them all, after you do just one more mission for her.  You will find her with Gavin Magnus in the throne room of Castle Lambent."	Success	Robert the Wise
325	"Keep trying to find his apartment.  Tolberti has never really believed anything bad could happen to him, and so far he's been right.  We need to prove him wrong.  Take the cube any way you can.  If you can do it without violence, fine.  If you must kill him, well, that's O.K. too.  Just get the cube."	Fail	Robert the Wise
326	"We need your help retrieving half of a key to a very important place from our enemies, the Wizards.  Like us, they have enshrined their half of the key in their highest temple--The Temple of the Light.  It'll be a snap.  Most so called good people spend more time defending and healing themselves than delivering damage.  How can you win if you don't fight?  Anyway, take your time and act when you're prepared.  

Also, bring our half of the key to us, as well.  It is enshrined in the Temple of the Darkness.  Since you're our ally, no one should trouble you when you go there to fetch the key.  But if you feel like you need the practice, go ahead a take a whack at some of them.  They're not very important, and most of them can regenerate from even the most severe injuries.  Try it--it's alot of fun!"	First Time Temple of Light	Kastore
327	"No key halves yet?  Bah!  I hope you're more competent than you seem right now!  How hard can this be?  All you have to do is burst in the front door and start shooting.  When there's no one left, you can clean their place out at your leisure.  Just hurry up and bring us both key halves."	Fail	Kastore
328	"Well, I'm glad you found our half of the key, but you still need their half.  Hold onto it until you get the other half.  When you have both halves, get back over here and I'll fix them."	Light not Dark	Kastore
329	"Finally!  I was beginning to wonder if you might have got yourselves killed already.  Well, no matter.  You forgot to get the key from the Temple of the Dark, so be on your way.  When you have it, return to me so I can make the two halves whole again."	Dark not Light	Kastore
330	"Excellent!  [Kastore takes the two halves of the key and bangs them together.  With a bright white flash, they join together seamlessly]  The first part of the Plan is complete.  I knew we, uh, Archibald made the right decision in trusting you!  "	Success	Kastore
331	"Soon our plans will bear fruit, but there are a few details that must be handled before we are ready.  The Kreegan, also known as the Devils, share this world with us.  The only reason we're sharing is because they are weak right now.  If they ever get strong, they will try to kill every person in the world.

Anyway, it's no fun to rule a world full of dead people, so we have to kill the Devils before they kill us.  Our plan is for you to infiltrate the Devils lair and destroy their leader, Xenofex.  The warlocks of Nighon have dug a tunnel from their volcano to the Land of the Giants-- the land of the Devils.  You can probably use that tunnel to get there."	First Time Strike the Devils	Kastore
332	"THAT WAS AWESOME!  You did it!  And now the single greatest threat to our plans is gone!  We will be Kings of the World!  [Kastore throws his head back and laughs wildly] AHAHAHAHAHA!!!!! Ah ha ha. Yes.  Well, good job.  I'll even forgive you for letting that King Roland character go free--we could have used him as a bargaining chip, you know.  [he shrugs] you probably didn't have a choice, I suppose.  In any event, this is a happy day!  "	Success	Kastore
333	"Could you please hurry up with this raid against the Devils?  Archibald has promised forces, but they won't be available forever.  What's worse, the devils breed faster than rabbits.  The longer you wait, the more you'll have to fight."	Fail	Kastore
334	"Archibald has asked us to find a source of soul jars for his necromancers.  These are the jars that are needed to complete the Ritual that gives them eternal life, and we're almost out.  There are far more candidates for Lichdom than we have jars, so some of our necromancers are facing the grim possibility of real death.  The makers of the jars are the Warlocks.  Go to them and convince them to give us the jars.  If they won't hand them over, take the jars by force-- I'm done negotiating prices with them."	First Time Soul Jars	Maximus
335	[Maximus takes the case of jars with obvious delight] Nice work.  I won't even ask what you had to do to get them.  Success speaks for itself.  	Success	Maximus
336	"You don't have to be nice about getting the jars from them--just get the jars any way you can.  We can renegotiate peace with them if we must, just like we renegotiate the price for each purchase of soul jars."	Fail	Maximus
337	"Lord Archibald has another request--the creatures that have inhabited Clanker's laboratory must be evicted--and the teleport shield brought down.  The laboratory is on an island east of Pierpont in the Tularean Forest.  Be careful--the monsters in that lab were created by Clanker himself, and some of them are much more powerful than their more common fellows elsewhere in the world.  Take whatever you like from the place.  Lord Archibald is only interested in the real estate and the laboratory equipment.  Once the shield is down, Lord Archibald will be able to begin moving necromancers and equipment inside via Lloyd's Beacon. "	First Time Clanker's Lab	Dark Shade
338	It's good to see we can count on you.  So few of our allies are as reliable and capable as yourselves.  Thank you very much for your aid.	Success	Dark Shade
339	"This is a simple task--get a move on!  Once again, the laboratory on an island east of Pierpont in the Tularean Forest.  Get the shield lowered, and your part of the job is done."	Fail	Dark Shade
340	"Just as Archibald has us, King Magnus of Bracada has his advisors.  And, just like us, each of them wears a small token called a command cube.  We need one of their cubes, and they're not going to just hand one over to us.  We must take one of their cubes, and we have decided it should be Robert the Wise who suffers.  One of our spies in their castle has damaged the lock to his room.  They have been lax about replacing it, so you should have no trouble going through the door.  I don't care if you kill him or not--just get the cube and return to me at once."	First Time Robert	Tolberti
341	"[Tolberti takes the cube] This brings us very close to completing our Plan.  I know Kastore hasn't told you exactly what the Plan is, but you'll like it, I'm sure!  I am not allowed to say much, but I can tell you your position will be much higher than simply Lords of Harmondale, you can count on that!  You will find Kastore in his place on the throne of Castle Gloaming."	Success	Tolberti
342	"What's wrong?  Don't tell me you're losing your nerve?  He's tough, but not immortal.  You can take him!  I wouldn't have sent you on this mission if I didn't think you could handle it."	Fail	Tolberti
343	"Yes, the test.  It's simple.  Near the center of the city is a place we call the Breeding Zone.  There's a lot of foul monsters in the pit, and they regenerate constantly.  It makes for a good source of slaves, spare parts, and target practice.  All of our necromancers are tested there when they want to rise above the level of initiate.  I'm sure you'll pass the test.  Just jump in the pit and find a way out.  Kill anything you want down there.  Show no mercy.  When you escape, crawl out of the pit and come see me again.  If you complete this, I will give you membership in the Guild of Dark. *If* you complete this..."	First Time Breeding Pit	Archibald
344	"You show promise, my friends.  A fine performance.  I think it will be sufficient proof of your skill for my advisors.  They are quite eager to assign tasks to you now; they can be found in the four houses in the western side of the Pit.  And don't worry.  Rewards will follow, of course."	Success	Archibald
345	"I am beginning to suspect my allies were right about you.  Can't you pass this simple test?  Are you too afraid, or too feeble to succeed?  Perhaps we need new allies?"	Fail	Archibald
346	"The time has come to achieve our Goal.  The reason we have sent you on all these missions is simple:  we have been busy gathering the parts needed to open a gate to the Ancients--the ones who colonized this world ages ago.  Unfortunately, our former compatriots also seek those parts for their own dark dreams.  They wish to rebuild the Heavenly Forge from the times before the Silence, and use it to duplicate the weapons we brought with us to your world.  We have been competing with them for these parts, but at last we have what we need.  

Except for one thing.  We have been unable to find the Oscillation Overthruster on your world.  All would be lost, but there is one such device aboard the Lincoln--the vehicle that brought us to your world.  It is in the sea west of Avlee and secured against entry, even from ourselves.  Now you must wear our environment suits, enter the ship, and return with the Overthruster; you will find these suits in the chest outside this throne room.  For the suit to function properly you must not be wearing any equipment.  As for us, we must stand watch at the gate, and battle our former comrades.  "	Final Task First Time	Resurectra
347	"You have returned!  At last!  We have the Overthruster.  Now, come with us as we open the way to the Ancients!"	Success	Resurectra
348	Don't forget you'll need the wetsuits to get to the Lincoln.  These suits are in the chest outside this throne room and the Lincoln is in the sea west of Avlee.  Return here with the Overthruster as soon as possible.	Fail	Resurectra
349	"Our finest hour is upon us.  While you have been taking care of all those important tasks, my compatriots and I have been struggling with our former friends for the parts we need to rebuild the Heavenly Forge of legend.  By former friends, I mean the four chief advisors to King Magnus of the Wizards.  They have a plan to build a gate to the Ancients.  They could have stood with us, but threw it all away on some vague hope of a 'better future'.  But you!  You have stood with us all this time.

Only one task remains--we need the Oscillation Overthruster from our old vehicle, the Lincoln.  We have been unable to find one on your world.  The ship is in the sea west of Avlee and secured against entry, even from ourselves.  Now you must wear our environment suits, enter the ship, and return with the Overthruster.  Our old environments suits have been prepared for you in the chest outside this throne room.  For the suit to function properly you must not be wearing any equipment.We will stand watch over the Forge, and defend it against our enemies.  Bring us the Overthruster, my friends, and together, we shall rule the world!"	Final Task First Time	Kastore
350	"YOU'VE DONE IT!!!  You have the Overthruster!  Quickly, come with me to the laboratory!  The forge is ready…"	Success	Kastore
351	"Don't forget you'll need the environmental suits to get to the Lincoln.  These suits are in the chest outside the throne room, and the Lincoln is in the sea west of Avlee.  What else do you need to know?"	Fail	Kastore
352	This month's bounty is on a %s.  Kill it and return before the end of the month to collect the %lu gold reward.		Monster hunt 1
353	Congratulations on defeating the %s!  Here is the %lu gold reward.  Come back next month for a new bounty.		Monster hunt 2
354	Someone has already claimed the bounty this month.  Come back next month for a new bounty.		Monster hunt 3
355	"You need to have your own deck of cards to play. We will supply the opponent.  Victory conditions vary per inn. Build your tower, destroy your opponent's tower, or collect enough resources before your opponent does. 

Large yellow numbers in column are the generators. This is how many new units of a particular resource you will receive on your next turn. Small black numbers in column are the resources. This is how many units you have available to spend on your current turn.

Cards: Each have their own cost to play, indicated in a small circle in the lower right corner of the card. The cost will be deducted from your resources according to the color of the card.  Left click on a card plays the card. Right click on a card to discard without playing.

Red represents your Quarry Generator which produces your Brick resources, blue represents your Magic Generator which produces Gem resources, green represents your Zoo generator which produces Beast resources. 
"	Arcomage Rules	
356	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 15, Wall of 5.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 30, one of the resources to 100, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 1	
357	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 20 and a Wall of 5.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 50, one of the resources to 150, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 2	
358	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 20 and a Wall of 5.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 50, one of the resources to 150, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 3	
359	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 25 and a Wall of 10.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 75, one of the resources to 200, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 4	
360	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 25 and a Wall of 10.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 75, one of the resources to 200, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 5	
361	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 30 and a Wall of 15.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 100, one of the resources to 300, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 6	
362	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 30 and a Wall of 15.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 100, one of the resources to 300, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 7	
363	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 20 and a Wall of 10.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 150, one of the resources to 400, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 8	
364	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 20 and a Wall of 10.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 200, one of the resources to 500, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 9	
365	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 20 and a Wall of 50.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 100, one of the resources to 300, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 10	
366	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 10 and a Wall of 20.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 125, one of the resources to 350, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 11	
367	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 10 and a Wall of 20.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 125, one of the resources to 350, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 12	
368	"All ArcoMage games here start with each player having a Tower of 50 and a Wall of 50.  The object is to get to either a Tower of 100, one of the resources to 300, or to destroy your opponent's Tower."	Arcomage Conditions 13
369	"So you seek to further your skills with the staff? Excellent! The staff can work offensively and defensively, and make you more difficult to hit. My teachings will raise you to Expert level, but first you must have a skill level of 4 with the staff and of course there is my small fee of 2000 gold."	skill 200
370	"You wish to continue on the path of mastery of the staff? If you prove an apt pupil and have already achieved an Expert skill level of 7 with the staff, I will gladly instruct you to Master level for 5000 gold.  With the skills I will teach you will have a chance to stun your opponent!"	skill 201
371	"To achieve Grand Mastery of the staff, you must deal with me! Before I can instruct you, you must have reached a Master Skill level of 10 with the staff, and pay my price of 8000 gold.  You will learn to fight with the staff and your body, allowing you to utilize the Unarmed skill, if you possess it."	skill 202
372	"So the sword is your weapon of choice, and you would like to have the skill to slay more effectively? Then I can help you!  My instruction will teach you to use your blade more quickly than before. If you have 2000 gold and have reached a skill level of 4 with the sword, I will instruct you to Expert level."	skill 203
373	"Bah!  Even the strongest plate armor can be sliced like a melon by someone who can wield a sword with Mastery!  With an Expert sword level of 7 and 5000 gold this I can teach you!   With the skills I teach, you can carry another weapon in your left hand, making you twice as deadly."	skill 204
374	"Even the cheapest steel can save the life of a warrior who has achieved Grand Mastery of the sword. With Grand Mastery you will be more difficult to hit.  If you have reached a Master skill of 10 with the sword and can pay my fee of 8000, I will teach you all the techniques of a Grand Master Swordsman."	skill 205
375	"I have a dagger and I bet can kill you before you draw yours! Speed can kill and the dagger is the fastest weapon! With what I can teach you, you can carry another weapon in your off hand. Two are better than one. The Expert skills of the dagger can be yours if you have a dagger skill level of 4 and can pay my modest fee of 2000 gold."	skill 206
376	Ha!  The fastest survive! This you learn as a small goblin child!  As a Master of the dagger I have and will survive! My teachings can greatly increase your chance of causing critical damage! If you have an Expert skill level of 7 and 5000 gold I can lead you to Mastery!	skill 207
377	"The quickest dagger, the one that is never seen, is the ultimate weapon.  You can rapidly attack your foe before he has a chance to strike you once.  With Grand Mastery of the dagger, this can be yours.  You must have a Master skill level of 10 and 8000 gold to receive my instruction."	skill 208
378	"Speed kills, especially when that speed is driving an axe. With my instruction you can have this Expert ability. You will strike more quickly than before, demolishing your foes! You must first have a skill level of 4 with the axe and pay my price of 2000 gold."	skill 209
379	"Mastery of the axe and skilled hands can split an opponents head like a pudding. With my instruction you can have this ability! You blows will cause more damage than before, devastating your opponents! But first you must have an Expert skill level of 7 with the axe and pay my price of 5000 gold."	skill 210
380	"As a Grand Master of the axe, your opponents' armor will mean nothing.  The effectiveness of their armor will be cut in half as you slice it from their carcass! I can teach you this skill, but you first must have a Master skill level of 10 with the axe and pay me 8000 gold."	skill 211
381	Spear expertise makes you one with your weapon.  With this skill you will cause more damage to your foe.  I can raise you to an Expert level if your skill level is 4 and you have 2000 gold.	skill 212
382	The spear is your weapon of choice? Would you like to learn to carry a shield or another weapon in your off hand to improve your combat ability?  This knowledge can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 with the spear and 5000 gold.	skill 213
383	"So you seek to further your skills with the spear? Excellent! The spear can work offensively and defensively, and make you more difficult to hit. My teachings will raise you to Grand Master, but first you must have a Master skill level of 10 with the spear and of course there is my small fee of 8000 gold."	skill 214
384	"Like to keep your enemy beyond arm's reach do you?  The bow is the best way to slay your enemy before he can harm you.  With my teachings you'll reach Expert status and be able to fire your bow more quickly, thus eliminating your enemy at range.  I will teach you if your skill level with the bow is 4 and you pay the price of 2000 gold."	skill 215
385	Think you are fast with the bow?  The speed you have now is nothing compared to what I can teach you.  My Master lessons can teach you to fire 2 arrows where Experts can only fire one.  This requires an Expert skill of 7 with the bow and the fee of 5000 gold.	skill 216
386	"Speed with the bow can definitely be an advantage, but that speed combined with the knowledge of how to seriously injure your foe can be the difference between life and death.  I will teach you Grand Mastery of the bow and you will increase the amount of damage that each shot does.  You must be a Master with a skill level of 10 and pay 8000 gold for this instruction."	skill 217
387	"The mace is a subtle weapon.  Where blades and dagger slash the flesh, the mace can break bones and destroy organs without all the bloody mess. As an Expert with the mace you will inflict more damage, increasing combat effectiveness.  If you have achieved a skill level of 4 and pay 2000 I will instruct you."	skill 218
388	"Who needs subtlety when your opponent is unconscious?  Mastery of the mace will give you the chance to stun or even paralyze your enemy.  For 5000 gold and proof that you have reached an Expert skill level of 7, I will teach you Mastery of the mace."	skill 219
389	"A greater chance to subdue your foe means a smaller chance you will be hurt yourself.  Grand Mastery of the mace will increase your chances of stunning or even paralyzing your foes.  If you have a Master skill level of 10 and can pay me 8000 gold, I will instruct you."	skill 220
390	"Looking to increase your Skill with the Blaster?  If you have a Skill level of 4 in Blaster, I will teach you and you will become an Expert with the Blaster.  With better aim, comes less opponents left standing!"	skill 221
391	Think you know your Blaster?  If you have reached a Skill level of 7 with the Blaster I will teach you how to Master this weapon of destruction.  You miss your target less and less as your Mastery of this weapon improves.	skill 222
392	"Your skills improve!  If your Skill with the Blaster is 10, I can teach you Grandmastery of the Blaster.  With this you will hit your target more often than not.  Dealing death and devastation where ever you go!"	skill 223
393	"The shield can be your friend.  It keeps those who wish you dead from striking at you.  With the Expert skill in shield that I can teach you, you will eliminate the penalty to your weapon's recovery for carrying a shield.  This skill can be yours for 1000 gold and proof of a skill level of 4 with the shield."	skill 224
394	"Mastery of the shield makes its defensive bonus doubly effective, making you that much harder to hit!  I will teach you Mastery of the shield if you have reached an Expert skill level of 7 and pay me 3000 gold."	skill 225
395	"Under my Grand Master tutelage, you will learn to make the shield the ultimate defense.  Not only will it protect you in melee but will also give you the benefits of the Shield spell.  This skill can be yours if you have reached a Master skill level of 10 with the shield and pay me 7000 gold."	skill 226
396	"Leather armor is the lightest protection around.  It keeps those who wish you dead from harming you.  With the Expert skill in leather armor, you will eliminate the penalty to your weapon's recovery caused by wearing armor.  This skill can be yours for 1000 gold and proof of a skill level of 4 in leather."	skill 227
397	"Mastery of leather armor makes its defensive bonus doubly effective, making you that much harder to hit!  I will teach you Mastery of leather armor if you have reached an Expert skill level of 7 and pay me 3000 gold."	skill 228
398	"Under my Grand Master tutelage, you will learn to make leather armor your ultimate defense.  Not only will it protect you in melee but will also protect you from the elemental spells of Earth, Air, Fire and Water.  This skill can be yours if you have reached a Master skill level of 10 with leather armor and pay me 7000 gold."	skill 229
399	"Chain armor is more durable than leather and offers more protection.  It keeps those who wish you dead from harming you.  With the Expert skill in chain armor, you will cut the penalty to your weapon's recovery caused by wearing armor in half.  This skill can be yours for 1000 gold and proof of a skill level of 4 in chain."	skill 230
400	Mastery of chain armor eliminates the penalty to your weapon's recovery caused by wearing armor.  I will teach you Mastery of chain armor if you have reached an Expert skill level of 7 and pay me 3000 gold.	skill 231
401	"Under my Grand Master tutelage, you will learn to make chain armor your ultimate defense.  Under my instruction you will learn to use chain to take less damage from the physical blows that hit you.  This skill can be yours if you have reached a Master skill level of 10 with chain armor and pay me 7000 gold."	skill 232
402	"Plate armor is the ultimate protection; compared to it, leather and chain are nothing.  With the Expert skill in plate armor, you will cut the penalty to your weapon's recovery caused by wearing armor in half.  This skill can be yours for 1000 gold and proof of a skill level of 4 in plate."	skill 233
403	Mastery of plate armor cuts the amount of damage from physical attacks in half.  I will teach you Mastery of plate armor if you have reached an Expert skill level of 7 and pay me 3000 gold.	skill 234
404	Grand Mastery of plate armor eliminates the penalty to your weapon's recovery caused by wearing armor.  I will teach you Grand Mastery of plate armor if you have reached a Master skill level of 10 and pay me 7000 gold.	skill 235
405	With Expert Fire Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for Fire.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Fire Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Fire Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 236
406	With Master Fire Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Fire Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Fire Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	skill 237
407	With Grand Master Fire Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Fire Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Fire Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	skill 238
408	With Expert Air Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Air Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Air Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 239
409	With Master Air Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Air Magic can be yours if you have a Expert skill level of 7 in Air Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	skill 240
410	With Grand Master Air Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Air Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Air Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	skill 241
411	With Expert Water Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Water Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Water Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 242
412	With Master Water Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Water Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Water Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	skill 243
413	With Grand Master Water Magic you can learn the Grand Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Water Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Water Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	skill 244
414	With Expert Earth Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Earth Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Earth Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 245
415	With Master Earth Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Earth Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Earth Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	skill 246
416	"With Grand Master Earth Magic you can learn the Grand Master spell for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Earth Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Earth Magic, and can pay the price of 8000 gold."	skill 247
417	With Expert Spirit Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Spirit Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Spirit Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 248
418	With Master Spirit Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Spirit Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Spirit Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	skill 249
419	With Grand Master Spirit Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Spirit Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Spirit Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	skill 250
420	With Expert Mind Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Mind Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in mind Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 251
421	With Master Mind Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Mind Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Mind Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	skill 252
422	With Grand Master Mind Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Mind Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Mind Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	skill 253
423	With Expert Body Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Body Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Body Magic and can pay the price of 1000 gold.	skill 254
424	With Master Body Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Body Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Body Magic and can pay the price of 4000 gold.	skill 255
425	With Grand Master Body Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this devotion.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Body Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Body Magic and can pay the price of 8000 gold.	skill 256
426	With Expert Light Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Light Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Light Magic and can pay the price of 2000 gold.	skill 257
427	"With Master Light Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Light Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Light Magic, have completed the Walls of Mist quest and can pay the price of 5000 gold."	skill 258
428	"With Grand Master Light Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Light Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Light Magic, have completed either the Archmage or Priest of Light promotion quests and can pay the price of 8000 gold."	skill 259
429	With Expert Dark Magic you can learn all of the Expert spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Expert Dark Magic can be yours if you have a skill level of 4 in Dark Magic and can pay the price of 2000 gold.	skill 260
430	"With Master Dark Magic you can learn all of the Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Master Dark Magic can be yours if you have an Expert skill level of 7 in Dark Magic, have completed the Breeding Zone quest and can pay the price of 5000 gold."	skill 261
431	"With Grand Master Dark Magic you can learn all of the Grand Master spells for this element.  Higher Level spells may prove more potent and of greater assistance to your party.  Grand Master Dark Magic can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Dark Magic, have completed either the Lich or Priest of Dark promotion quests and can pay the price of 8000 gold."	skill 262
432	"Ever sold an item that turned out to be better than your existing equipment?  Nothing worse than having a merchant snicker at you for not knowing what you're selling. With Expert Identify Item you can attempt to identify weapons and armor to prevent this embarrassment. If your skill level is 4 and you pay 500 gold, I will teach you."	skill 263
433	"Wands, scrolls, rings and potions can be important items, and not knowing what they are is just foolishness.  With Mastery of the Identify Items skill you can attempt to identify weapons, armor, and other miscellaneous items.  For a small fee of 2500 gold and demonstration of an Expert Skill level of 7, I can teach you Mastery of the Identify Items Skill."	skill 264
434	"Found and ancient item or relic and don’t know what it does or what its for.  Ignorance in the case is not bliss, in fact it could very well kill. With Grand Mastery of the Identify Item Skill you can attempt to identify anything you have found including artifacts and relics.  A Master Skill level of 10 and 6000 gold is all that is required to learn this Skill."	skill 265
435	Shop owners are a greedy lot.  Want to get better prices for what you buy and sell?  Then you better have the Merchant Skill and fast. I can teach you the Expertise of the Merchant Skill if you have a skill level of 4 and pay 2000 gold.  Expertise doubles your bonus towards prices.	skill 266
436	"Shop owners are a greedy lot.  Want to get better prices for what you buy and sell?  Then you better have the Merchant Skill and learn the ins and outs of trading. I can teach you Mastery of the Merchant Skill if you have an Expert Skill level of 7, a Personality of 50 and pay 5000 gold.  Mastery triples your bonus towards prices."	skill 267
437	Shop owners are a greedy lot.  Want to get better prices for what you buy and sell?  Then you better have the Merchant Skill and learn the ins and outs of trading. I can teach you Grand Mastery of the Merchant Skill if you have a Master Skill level of 10 and pay 8000 gold.  Grand Mastery allows you to pay and receive the actual price for goods.	skill 268
438	"Your equipment is only as good as the person who repairs it.  If you can't fix it, you could find yourself stuck in the wilderness with no armor or weapons.  This could be extraordinarily bad. Expertise with the Repair Item skill allows you not only the chance of repairing weapons, but armor as well.  This skill can be yours if you have a Skill level of 4 and pay 500 gold."	skill 269
439	"Your equipment is only as good as the person who repairs it.  If you can't fix it, you could find yourself stuck in the wilderness with no armor or weapons.  This could be extraordinarily bad. Mastery of the Repair Item skill allows you not only the chance of repairing weapons and armor any broken miscellaneous item as well.  This skill can be yours if you have an Expert Skill level of 7 and pay 2500 gold."	skill 270
440	"Your equipment is only as good as the person who repairs it.  If you can't fix it, you could find yourself stuck in the wilderness with no armor or weapons.  This could be extraordinarily bad. A Grand Master of the Repair Items Skill can fix ANYTHING that is broken.  This skill can be yours if you have a Master Skill level of 10 and pay 6000 gold."	skill 271
441	"So you think you are adventurers, do you?  There's not enough meat on you to protect you from the slap of a baby goblin!  Body Building is the only way to go.  You will be stronger and tougher than before!  An Expert of Body Building is tougher than the normal hero.  I can teach you this if your skill level is 4, pay 500 gold and are ready to sweat!"	skill 272
442	"So you think you are adventurers, do you?  There's not enough meat on you to protect you from the slap of a baby troll!  Body Building is the only way to go.  You will be stronger and tougher than before!  A Master of Body Building is much tougher than the average hero.  I can teach you this if your Expert Skill level is 7, pay 2500 gold and have and Endurance of 50! No pain no gain!"	skill 273
443	"So you think you are adventurers, do you?  There's not enough meat on you to protect you from the slap of a baby dragon!  Body Building is the only way to go.  You will be stronger and tougher than before!  A Grand Master of Body Building is the toughest hero you can find.  I can teach you this if your Master Skill level is 9, pay 6000 gold and have and Endurance of 50! No pain no gain!"	skill 274
444	Not enough spell points for casting those Expert spells?  Meditation is what you need.  With an Expert Skill in Meditation you get a double bonus to your available spell points.  This could mean one more powerful spell when you most need it!  Expertise can be yours if your skill level is 4 and pay me 500 gold.	skill 275
445	Not enough spell points for casting those Master spells?  Meditation is what you need.  With a Master Skill in Meditation you get a triple bonus to your available spell points.  This could mean one more powerful spell when you most need it!  Mastery can be yours if your Expert Skill level is 7 and pay me 2500 gold.	skill 276
446	Not enough spell points for casting those Grand Master spells?  Meditation is what you need.  With a Grand Master Skill in Meditation you get a quadruple bonus to your available spell points.  This could mean one or more powerful spells when you most need them!  Grand Mastery can be yours if your Master Skill level is 10 and pay me 6000 gold.	skill 277
447	"Things are sometime hidden in the dungeons and castles of this land.   You may have missed something without even knowing it was there.  Perception increases your chance of finding these hidden things. Expertise in the Perception skill doubles your chances of finding these hidden things.  For 500 gold and a skill level of 4 in Perception, I will teach you."	skill 278
448	"Things are sometime hidden in the dungeons and castles of this land.   You may have missed something without even knowing it was there.  Perception increases your chance of finding these hidden things. Mastery of the Perception skill triples your chances of finding these hidden things.  For 2500 gold and an Expert skill level of 7 in Perception, I will teach you."	skill 279	
449	"Things are sometime hidden in the dungeons and castles of this land.  You may have missed something without even knowing it was there.  Perception increases your chance of finding these hidden things. Grand Mastery of the Perception skill quintuples your chances of finding these hidden things. For 6000 gold and a Master Skill level of 10 in Perception, I will teach you."	skill 280	
450	"My brother, Elron, was an avid Arcomage player.  Have you played Arcomage yet?  Horribly addicting game, if I do say so.  In any rate, you can only play if you have a deck, and decks are hard to come by… so I guess you probably haven't.  In any case, Elron wanted to go over some strategies to help him win more games.  Unfortunately, he didn't want to be in town because he didn't want anyone else to spy on him learn his tricks so he went to the White Cliff Caves southeast a bit from town.

Elron hasn't been back in almost a week.  I'm certain something horrible has happened to him, but if he's alive I'd like to know that too.  Would you do me the service of locating him?  I don't have a lot of money to pay you back with, but I'd be greatly in your debt."	First time Arcomage cards	Used to be Expert Diplomacy
451	"Still no sign of him?  I understand.  If you do happen to find out what happened to him, please let me know."	Fail	Used to be Master Diplomacy
452	"Dead?  Oh dear!  Those are certainly his cards, though.  I don't want the cards; you can have them-- that game has cost me enough now.  Oh, poor Elron!  I have a little money you can keep for your help, and thank you for finding out what happened to Elron."	Success	Used to be GM Diplomacy
453	"The School of Sorcery here in the Bracada Desert collects a number of odd magical paraphernalia.  A few years ago an item of particular interest was stolen from the School by raiders from Deyja.  This item, the Seasons' Stole, was worn by Priests of the Sun during religious ceremonies at the turn of the seasons.  As a representative of the School of Sorcery, I'm authorized to reward you for its return.  Our last information placed the stolen Stole in the Hall of the Pit; I would suggest checking there first."	First Time scarf quest	Used to be Expert Thievery
454	Don't forget there is a reward for the Seasons' Stole if you are able to find it and return it to me.	Fail	Used to be Master Thievery
455	Excellent!  This most certainly is the Seasons' Stole.  Here is your reward; you've done both the School of Sorcery and myself a great service.	Success	Used to be GM Thievery
456	"Tired of chests blowing up in your face?  Sick of poison gas clouds, fireballs, and lightning bolts sending party members to the Great Beyond?  Expert Lock Picking doubles your chance of disarming these traps before they go off.  I will teach you Expert Lock Picking if you have a Skill level of 4 and can pay 500 gold."	skill 287	
457	"Tired of chests blowing up in your face?  Sick of poison gas clouds, fireballs, and lightning bolts sending party members to the Great Beyond?  Master Lock Picking triples your chance of disarming these traps before they go off.  I will teach you Master Lock Picking if you have an Expert Skill level of 7 and can pay 2500 gold."	skill 288	
458	"Tired of chests blowing up in your face?  Sick of poison gas clouds, fireballs, and lightning bolts sending party members to the Great Beyond?  Grand Master Lock Picking eliminates these pesky traps entirely before they go off.  I will teach you Grand Master Lock Picking if you have a Master Skill level of 10 and can pay 6000 gold."	skill 289	
459	"The best defense to an attack is not to be there when the attack is made.  Of course you must be quick and agile to do this, and wear no armor. While your Dodging skill makes you that more difficult to hit, this bonus is doubled when you have learned my Expert teachings.  I will instruct you if you have a Skill level of 4 in Dodging and pay 2000 gold."	skill 290	
460	"The best defense to an attack is not to be there when the attack is made.  Of course you must be quick and agile to do this, and wear no armor. While your Dodging skill makes you that more difficult to hit, this bonus is tripled when you have learned Mastery of dodging.  I will instruct you if you have an Expert Skill level of 7 in Dodging and pay 5000 gold"	skill 291	
461	"The best defense to an attack is not to be there when the attack is made.  Of course you must be quick and agile to do this, and wear no armor. Or so you thought, for Grand Mastery gives you all of the benefits of Dodging while wearing leather armor. Your Dodging skill makes you that much more difficult to hit and this bonus is still tripled when you have achieved Grand Mastery of Dodging.  I will instruct you if you have a Master Skill level of 10 in Dodging, pay 8000 gold and skill level of 10 in Unarmed combat."	skill 292	
462	Hand to hand combat is the quickest way to fight.  No weapons to slow you down. With my Expert teachings you will learn to do more damage with every hit you land upon your enemy. You must have a skill level of 4 in Unarmed combat and pay my price of 2000 gold.	skill 293	
463	You wish to continue upon the path of Mastery of Unarmed combat?  With Mastery you will double your bonus to hit and damage with every attack.  First you must have an Expert skill level of 7 with Unarmed combat and pay 5000 gold.  Only then will I teach you.	skill 294	
464	"Attaining Grand Master level of Unarmed combat gives you the chance to avoid attacks entirely, leaving you unhampered to slay your foe.  You must demonstrate a Master skill level of 10 in Unarmed combat, a skill level of 10 in Dodging and pay 8000 gold to receive my instruction."	skill 295
465	Knowing what you are up against in combat can mean the difference between life and death.  Being able to identify the monsters and opponents you are fighting can make this difference. I can teach you Expert Identify Monster if you already have a skill level of 4 and and pay 500 gold.	skill 296
466	"He who runs away today lives to run away another day.  This doesn't necessarily mean he is a coward, however.  He may just be very smart.  He may know how his opponent attacks and what spells he may use, if any.  I can teach you Master Identify Monster if you have achieved an Expert Skill level of 7 and can pay 2500 gold."	skill 297
467	"If you can probe your enemies defenses and know his weaknesses, you will always prevail.  With Grand Mastery of Identify Monster, you will know how your enemy attacks and what his defenses are.  This knowledge will allow you to attack his weakest points. I can raise you to Grand Master of this skill if you have a Master skill level of 10 and pay 6000 gold."	skill 298
468	Knowledge of a single weapon is great.  Having knowledge of all weapons is even better.  Armsmaster skill allows you to decrease the recovery time of any melee weapon you are already skilled with and gives the chance for greater inflicted damage.  I can make you an Expert Armsmaster if you have a skill level of 4 and pay 2000 gold.	skill 299
469	Knowledge of a single melee weapon is great.  Having knowledge of all melee weapons is even better.  Armsmaster skill allows you to decrease the recovery time of any melee weapon you are already skilled with and gives the chance for greater inflicted damage.  I can make you a Master Armsmaster if you have an Expert skill level of 7 and pay 5000 gold.	skill 300
470	Knowledge of a single melee weapon is great.  Having knowledge of all melee weapons is even better.  Armsmaster skill decreases the recovery time of any melee weapon you are already skilled with and gives the chance for greater inflicted damage.  I can make you a Grand Master Armsmaster if you have a Master skill level of 10 and pay 8000 gold.	skill 301
471	Don’t want to pay for an item from a store?  The five finger discount gives you a chance to to take an item without paying for it.  I can teach you Expert Stealing for 500 gold and if your skill level is already 4.  This will double you chance of success!	skill 302
472	"Just a little short on gold?  Or do you think that free is always better than having to pay?  If you already have an Expert Skill level of 7 in Stealing and pay me 2500 gold, I can teach you ways of Master Stealing, tripling you chances of success while stealing!"	skill 303
473	"Want to keep all that hard earned gold, do you?  Don’t want to have to pay to replace that broken item you can't repair? As a Grand Master of Stealing I can teach you ways to quintuple your chances of success when stealing.  You must already have a Master skill level of 10 and pay me 6000 gold!"	skill 304
474	Tired of the simple potions mixtures?  Want to make something new and potent?  Want to create compound potions?  This knowledge of Expert Alchemy can be yours if you demonstrate a skill level of 4 and pay 500 gold.	skill 305
475	Want to know how to use potions and compound potions to make white potions?  I can raise you to Master knowledge of Alchemy if you have an Expert skill level of 7 and pay 2500 gold.	skill 306
476	"The black potion is the Alchemist's ultimate creation!  They can effect so many different things and are even wonderful to taste!  Grand Mastery of Alchemy can be yours if you have a Master skill level of 10 in Alchemy, possess one of each of the best reagents and pay 6000 gold."	skill 307
477	"Learning allows you to gain more experience from your travels and encounters. Expert Learning doubles the bonus to gained experience, leading you down the path of greater wisdom.  I will instruct you in Expert Learning if your Skill level is 4 and you pay me 2000 gold."	skill 308
478	"Learning allows you to gain more experience from your travels and encounters. Master Learning triples the bonus to gained experience, leading you down the path of greater wisdom.  I will instruct you in Master Learning if you have an Expert Skill level of 7, pay me 5000 gold and have and Intellect of 50."	skill 309
479	"Learning allows you to gain more experience from your travels and encounters. Grand Master Learning quintuples the bonus to gained experience, leading you down the path of greater wisdom.  I will instruct you in Grand Master Learning if you have a Master Skill level of 10, pay me 8000 gold and have and Intellect of 50."	skill 310
480	"Thomas Grey runs the School of Sorcery.  If you're looking for promotion to Wizard or Honorary Wizard, he's your man.  His room is right through the door behind me."		
481	"Would you like a membership to the School of Sorcery Scroll Shop?  A membership allows you free access to the scrolls available in our library.  It costs 5000 gold for a six month membership, but the shop stocks once per week."	Do you want a membership?	
482	"Here's the membership, remember it only lasts for six months.  Check the shelves in the front rooms here to see what is available."	Here's the membership	
483	You don't have enough gold-- it's no use trying to fool a Wizard.	Not enough gold	
484	"You want to bury the bones of Zokarr IV in our old barrows?  No dwarf here will brave the dangers, but Zokarr deserves to be laid to rest in the right place.  Look for the secret barrow, the one with only one entrance.  In there is a coffin waiting for Zokarr's bones."	Need the bones	Dwarf King
485	"We have no one to turn to but you, the new Lords of Harmondale. The Lantern of Light is a treasured holy relic, used by the temples of Erathia.  Its value is more symbolic than of power-- without it the temples servants lose faith.  This Lantern disappeared while being brought to this temple from the temple in Stone City.  We believe it was lost somewhere in the maze-like Barrows.  Please find it and return it to us."	Get Lantern	
486	Have you found the Lantern of Light?  We're certain it was lost in the maze of Barrows in the Barrow Downs.	Don’t have Lantern	
487	"Thank you, Lords of Harmondale.  The Lantern's return will bolster our faith and allows us to continue our services.  Please take this small reward as a token of our gratitude."	Returned Lantern	
488	"My, brother, Haldar passed away last month.  The family was sending his remains to me to be put to final rest.  Something happened to those delivering these remains to me; they disappeared in Nighon and not been heard from since. I fear my brothers soul will never rest unless they are found!  Please return Haldar to me if you find him? I will reward you well for this!"	Get Haldar's Remains	
489	Did you find Haldar's Remains?  His soul must be in sheer agony!  Please find the jar with his remains!	Don’t have Haldar's Remains	
490	"Thank you for returning my ""brother's"" remains!  He was a promising Warlock and his life was ended to soon.  Now that I have his remains, I will attempt to bring him back as a Lich, and together we will seek greater power and glory!"	Returned Haldar's Remains	
491	"My lords, I was beset by foul bandits when I returned from Avlee and they took everything I had brought with me from the Elves.  They even took my signet ring!  Without it I cannot continue my business because I cannot seal contracts between myself and other merchants.  I've heard the bandits base themselves out of a camp in Erathia, but I'm no warrior-- I'd not last a minute against them.  Please go to Erathia and see this justice done!"	Get Davrik's Ring	
492	"You don't have my ring yet?  The bandits are south of Castle Gryphonheart in Erathia.  Please help me, I don't have anyone else to turn to."	Don’t have Davrik's Ring	
493	"My ring!  Thank you lords.  I can now continue my business and recover my losses, and you have made the trading routes safer for all the merchants!"	Returned Davrik's Ring	
494	"So you are the Lords of Harmondale, eh?  You don’t look like much; we shall see how history judges you!  I myself am a historian and collector of rare historical items.  Lord Markham also collects such items of interest and there is one item in particular that would complete my collection, Parson's Quill-- the Quill used to sign the Treaty of Pierpont ending the first Timber War.  I know you have dealt with Lord Markham before, it's how you became Lords of this land after all, and if you would take this letter to Lord Markham in Tatalia, I'm sure he would respond favorably.  I would be even more in your debt if Lord Markham sends this item back with you!  I would be sure to favorably record your heroic acts and deeds!"	Sealed Letter to Lord Markum	
495	"Did Lord Markham refuse to give you the Quill, or have you not even visited him yet?  His Manor is in Tatalia, please don't forget to help me."	Don’t have Peacock Feather	
496	The actual Peacock feather that was used to sign the Treaty of Pierpont.  My collection is complete!  I will be sure to record your activities and deeds correctly and justly so that all will know you as the true Lords of Harmondale!	Returned with Peacock Feather	
497	"A letter from Norbert Thrush the Historian? Let me see it.  [Lord Markham scans the letter briefly] Hmmmmm…he wants the Peacock feather that was used to sign the Treaty of Pierpont, does he.  Well, seeing as though he has a supposed original of the Treaty, I guess the feather should go to him.  He has promised me anything else in his collection.  Take this to him and tell him that I will come collect from him shortly!"	Letter from Norbert Thrush	
498	"I hear you folk are the new Lords of Harmondale, eh?  Perhaps you could do me a large favor, and help yourselves in the process.  To the north, in Avlee, lies the Hall under the Hill, the domain of the Faerie King.  He owes me a debt from a previous service of mine, and I would like to collect it.  Unfortunately, the faeries in the Hall and the tricks they play frighten me to death.  If you would deliver this letter to the Faerie King, and return what he gives you to me, I'd be very grateful.  You would also have the chance to meet the Faerie King for yourselves."	First Time Pipes Quest	Johann Kerrid
499	"Excellent!  The Pipes!  You don't know what this means to me.  Here, take this as a reward and thank you again for your help in this!"	Success	Johann Kerrid
500	"Don't forget to give the letter to the Faerie King.  Without it, he probably won't even want to talk to you."	Fail	Johann Kerrid
501	"We request your services for only one small task.  In Castle Lambent rests a valuable tapestry taken from an attack on Watchtower 3 years ago.  I would like you to get the tapestry for me, as you must have *some* access to the Castle-- my normal associates can't even come near the place.  I hear a large band of goblins and renegade swordsmen are about... it would be a shame if they happened to find a way to Harmondale.  You have one month to get the tapestry.  Don't be late."	First Time Good	Niles Stantley
502	"We request your services for one task.  A rare and valuable tapestry rests in Castle Gloaming, an antique from near the Silence stolen from the wizards some time ago.  I would like you to get the tapestry for me, as my normal associates don't have access to Castle Gloaming.  In return, I'll make sure that the large band of renegade swordsmen and goblins near Harmondale don't accidentally stumble upon your quiet, little village.  You have one month; don't be late."	First Time Evil	Niles Stantley
503	"Excellent!  I see that you can be trusted to perform well when called upon.  I'll keep that in mind the next time I need a job done.  Your reward is nothing more than status quo-- things could be much worse than they already are.  Go now, I have no more time for you."	Success	Niles Stantley
504	"I see.  Well, it would appear that the band of renegades has indeed discovered your little town, and has begun looting.  You may find your bank account a little, well, pinched.  Consider this a lesson in punctuality.  Go now and have a pleasant, pleasant day."	Fail	Niles Stantley
505	"A few years back, while mining underneath Stone City, we came upon quite a shock.  It seems that the Warlocks from Nighon had burrowed under the sea to make a sneak attack upon the shores of Erathia.  Their careless tunneling has sunken the earth around here until now the areas around the old dwarven barrows and, of course, Stone City, rest far above the terrain.  We discovered a force of troglodytes in our mining areas, with a tunnel leading back to Nighon.  If you could help us by ridding the tunnels of the troglodytes, we could get back to mining.  Can you help us?"	Kill Troggies First Time	Spark Burnkindle
506	There are still troglodytes roaming the lower mine levels.  Please remove them!	Fail	Spark Burnkindle
507	They're gone?  Routed back into the connecting tunnels to Nighon!  Excellent!  We can get back to mining immediately!  Thank you so much for your help; take this as a reward for your services.	Success	Spark Burnkindle
508	"I have recently gained information that the forces of Queen Catherine, in Erathia, have begun to build a force to attack Deyja.  Because of the difficult terrain, they have begun to breed and train griffins to assist in their attack.  These griffins are being raised in both Erathia and the Bracada Desert.  I need you to kill off all the griffins in those two areas so that the Erathians will be forced to drastically delay their plans of attack."	Kill Griffins First Time	Seth Drakkson
509	You haven't killed off all the griffins in either Erathia or the Bracada Desert.  It is imperative that you finish this task to prevent their invasion.	"Fail, killed no griffins"	Seth Drakkson
510	"You've killed the griffins near Spyre Town, but you haven't dealt with the griffins in Erathia yet.  Finish them both off and return to me."	"Fail, haven't killed Erathian griffins"	Seth Drakkson
511	"You've killed the griffins near Steadwick, but you haven't dealt with the griffins in the Bracada Desert yet.  Finish them both off and return to me."	"Fail, haven't killed Bracada griffins"	Seth Drakkson
512	"Excellent!  You've done a splendid job.  Here, take this as your reward and know you've earned the respect of Deyja for your bold success."	Success	Seth Drakkson
513	"The Baby Dragon grants all Warlocks in the party a bonus of 3 to all their spell skills and recovers spell points for them over time.  The Dragon, however, needs food to grow up big and strong and therefore resting requires an additional food."	R-click text	Baby Dragon
514	"The Master instructor of the Staff, Elsie Pederton, can be found in the Bracada Desert, on a ridge in the southwest region."	Master Staff hint	James Teacher Hints
515	"The ultimate teacher in the ways of the Staff, Jillian Mithrit, can be found in the elven territory of Avlee.  Her home is in the city in the northeast."	Grandmaster Staff hint	James Teacher Hints
516	"The Master instructor of the Sword, Tugor Slicer, maintains his residence in a small village in the western region of the Deyja."	Master Sword hint	James Teacher Hints
517	"The Grandmaster of the Sword, Chadric Townsaver, can be found in a small village in Welnin, just south of the city of Harmondale."	Grandmaster Sword hint	James Teacher Hints
518	"The Master tutor of the Dagger, Aznog Slasher, can be found in the northern region of Nighon."	Master Dagger hint	James Teacher Hints
519	"The Grandmaster of the Dagger, Token Fist, can be found in city of Tidewater in Tatalia.  Rumor has it that the Master Thief in the depths of the Erathian Sewers beneath the capitol city of Steadwick can also instruct at this level."	Grandmaster Dagger hint	James Teacher Hints
520	"The Master Instructor of all that is the Axe, Dalin Keenedge, can be found in the northeast corner of Stone City."	Master Axe hint	James Teacher Hints
521	"The ultimate teacher of the uses of the Axe, Karn Stonecleaver, can be found in the snowy heights of the northeast region of Tatalia."	Grandmaster Axe hint	James Teacher Hints
522	"The Master teacher, Claderin Silverpoint, can be found in the northeast section of the city of Pierpont in the elven region of the Tularean Forest. There he will further you knowledge of the Spear."	Master Spear hint	James Teacher Hints
523	"The Grandmaster of the Spear, Selene Falconeye, makes her home in the northeast corner of Stone City."	Grandmaster Spear hint	James Teacher Hints
524	"The Master tutor of the Bow, Lanshee Ravensight, lives in the northern regions of Nighon."	Master Bow hint	James Teacher Hints
525	"The Grandmaster of the Bow, Cardric the Steady, can be found just to the southeast of the castle in the city of Harmondale."	Grandmaster Bow hint	James Teacher Hints
526	"The Master instructor of the Mace, Brother Rothham, can be found in the southern region of the swamps of Tatalia."	Master Mace hint	James Teacher Hints
527	"The Grandmaster of the Mace, Patwin Felburn, teaches from his home in the goblin village found in the eastern area of the Deyja. "	Grandmaster Mace hint	James Teacher Hints
528	"My Master, Isram Gallowswell, can be found in the snowy heights of the northeast area of Tatalia. You will gain further instruction in the Shield there."	Master Shield hint	James Teacher Hints
529	"The Grandmaster of the Shield, Fedwin Smithson, can be found on the eastern island of the Evenmorn Islands."	Grandmaster shield hint	James Teacher Hints
530	"The Master tutor of Leather Armor, Rabisa Neldon, lives in the northern regions of Nighon."	Master Leather hint	James Teacher Hints
531	"The Grandmaster of Leather Armor, Miyon the Quick, can be found in the eastern section of the city of Pierpont in the elven region of the Tularean Forest."	Grandmaster Leather hint	James Teacher Hints
532	"The Master instructor of uses of Chain Armor, Medwari Dragontracker, can be found in the elven territory of Avlee.  His home is in the city in the northeast."	Master Chain hint	James Teacher Hints
533	"The Grandmaster instructor of Chain Armor, Halian Nevermore, maintains his residence in a large city in the northwest region of Deyja."	Grandmaster Chain hint	James Teacher Hints
534	"My Master, Dekian Forgewright, makes his home in Erathia in the capitol city of Steadwick. He can provide further instruction in the uses of Plate Armor."	Master Plate hint	James Teacher Hints
535	"The Grandmaster of Plate Armor, Brand the Maker, can be found in the Bracada desert, on a ridge in the central region."	Grandmaster Plate hint	James Teacher Hints
536	"The Master tutor of Fire Magic, Ashen Temper, can be found in the city of Harmondale near the stables."	Master Fire Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
537	"The Grandmaster of Fire Magic, Blayze, makes his home in Erathia in the capitol city of Steadwick."	Grandmaster Fire Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
538	"The Master tutor of Air Magic, Rislyn Greenstorm, lives in the elven territory of Avlee.  His home is in the city in the northeast."	Master Air Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
539	"The Grandmaster of Air Magic, Gayle, can be found in a tower in the Bracada desert, on a ridge in the northern region."	Grandmaster Air Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
540	"The Master tutor of the uses of Water Magic, Tobren Rainshield, lives in the southwest region of Nighon."	Master Water Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
541	"The Grandmaster of Water Magic, Torrent, lives on a ridge, south of Harmondale, overlooking the city."	Grandmaster Water Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
542	"The Master tutor of Earth Magic, Lara Stonewright, makes her home in the elven territory of the Tularean Forest.  Her residence is in the city of Pierpont."	Master Earth Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
543	"The Grandmaster instructor of Earth Magic, Avalanche, maintains his residence in the western region of the Deyja."	Grandmaster Earth Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
544	"The Master who taught me, Heather Dreamwright, makes her home in Erathia, somewhere in the capitol city of Steadwick.  Further knowledge of Spirit Magic can be gained there."	Master Spirit Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
545	"The ultimate teacher in the ways of Spirit Magic, Benjamin the Balanced, can be found in the elven territory of the Tularean Forest.  His home is in the city of Pierpont."	Grandmaster Spirit Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
546	"The Master teacher in the ways of Mind Magic, Myles Featherwind, can be found in the elven territory of Avlee.  His home is in the city to the northeast."	Master Mind Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
547	"The Grandmaster of Mind Magic, Xavier Bremen, can be found in the snowy heights of the northeast area of Tatalia. "	Grandmaster Mind Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
548	"The Master teacher in the ways of Body Magic, Brother Bombah, can be found in the swampy regions of Tatalia.  His home is somewhere in the southern region."	Master Body Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
549	"The Grandmaster teacher in the ways of Body Magic, Tempus, can be found in the elven territory of Avlee.  His home is on an island somewhere in the central bay."	Grandmaster Body Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
550	"The Master of the Identify Item skill, Samuel Benson, can be found on a ridge in the central region of the Bracada desert."	Master Identify Item hint	James Teacher Hints
551	"The Grandmaster of the Identify Item skill, Payge Blueswan, can be found in the elven territory of Avlee.  His home is just northwest of the elven city of Spaward."	Grandmaster Identify Item hint	James Teacher Hints
552	"The Master of the Merchant skill, Berthold Caverhill, can be found on the eastern most island of the Evenmorn Islands."	Master Merchant	James Teacher Hints
553	"The Grandmaster of the Merchant skill, Brigham the Frugal, can be found in a tower in the Bracada desert, on a ridge in the northern region."	Grandmaster Merchant hint	James Teacher Hints
554	"The Master teacher of the Repair Item Skill, Thomas Moore, can be found in the swampy delta of the southern region of Tatalia."	Master Repair Item hint	James Teacher Hints
555	"The Grandmaster of the Repair Item Skill, Gareth the Fixer, teaches from his home in the capitol city of Steadwick in Erathia."	Grandmaster Repair Item hint	James Teacher Hints
556	"The Master of the of the art of Body Building, Wanda Foestryke, can be found in the goblin village in eastern DeyJa Moor."	Master Body Building hint	James Teacher Hints
557	"The Grandmaster of the Body Building skill, Evander Thomas, makes his home in the eastern regions of Nighon."	Grandmaster Body Building hint	James Teacher Hints
558	"The Master of Meditation, Tessa Greensward, can be found on a ridge in the southeast region of the Bracada desert."	Master Meditation hint	James Teacher Hints
559	"The Grandmaster of Meditation, Kaine, can be found in the elven territory of Avlee.  His home is on an island somewhere in the central bay."	Grandmaster Meditation hint	James Teacher Hints
560	"The Master of the Perception Skill, Garret Dotes, can be found in the elven area of the Tularean Forest.  His home is in the Elven city of Pierpont."	Master Perception hint	James Teacher Hints
561	"The Grandmaster of the Skill of Perception, Petra Cleareye, can be found in the city in the northwest region of the Deyja."	Grandmaster Perception hint	James Teacher Hints
562	"The Master of Disarm Trap Skill, Lenord Skinner, lives on a ridge, south of Harmondale, overlooking the city."	Master Disarm Trap hint	James Teacher Hints
563	"The Grandmaster of the Disarm Trap Skill, Silk Quicktoungue, makes his home in the southern region of Nighon."	Grandmaster Disarm Trap hint	James Teacher Hints
564	"The Master of the Dodging Skill, Oberic Crane, can be found on the eastern most island of the Evenmorn Islands"	Master Dodging hint	James Teacher Hints
565	"The Grandmaster of the Dodging Skill, Kenneth Wain, can be found in the capitol city of Steadwick, in Erathia."	Grandmaster Dodging hint	James Teacher Hints
566	"The Master of Unarmed Combat, Ulbrecht the Brawler, can be found on the eastern most island of the Evenmorn Islands."	Master Unarmed Combat hint	James Teacher Hints
567	"The Grandmaster of Unarmed Combat, Norris, can be found in the capitol city of Steadwick, in Erathia."	Grandmaster of Unarmed Combat Hint	James Teacher Hints
568	"The Master instructor of the Identify Monster Skill, Jeni Swiftfoot, lives in the elven territory of Avlee.  Her home is in the city in the northeast."	Master Identify Monster hint	James Teacher Hints
569	"The Grandmaster of the Identify Monster Skill, Raven the Hunter, can be found in a small village to the south of Harmondale."	Grandmaster Identify Monster Hint	James Teacher Hints
570	"The Master tutor of the Armsmaster Skill, Paula Brightspear, lives in the elven territory of Avlee.  Her home is in the city in the northeast."	Master Armsmater hint	James Teacher Hints
571	"The Grandmaster of the Armsmaster Skill, Lasiter the Slayer, makes his home in the eastern region of Eeofol."	Grandmaster Armsmaster hint	James Teacher Hints
572	"The Master tutor of the Stealing Skill, Leane Shadowrunner, makes her home in the goblin village in the eastern region of the Deyja."	Master Stealing hint	James Teacher Hints
573	"The Grandmaster teacher of the art of Stealing, Everil Nightwalker, can be found in the swampy delta of the southern region of Tatalia."	Grandmaster Stealing hint	James Teacher Hints
574	"The Master of Alchemy, Elzbet Winterspoon, can be found in the western region of Nighon."	Master Alchemy hint	James Teacher Hints
575	"The Grandmaster instructor of Alchemy, Lucid Apple, can be found in the elven territory of Avlee.  His home is on an island somewhere in the central bay."	Grandmaster Alchemy hint	James Teacher Hints
576	"The Master of Learning, Dorothy Senjac, can be found in the southeast region of Nighon."	Master Learning hint	James Teacher Hints
577	"The Grandmaster of Learning, William Smithson, instructs from his home on the eastern island of the Evenmorn Islands."	Grandmaster Learning hint	James Teacher Hints
578	"The Master of Light Magic, Helena Mornigstar, can be found in the cloud city of Celeste!"	Master Light Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
579	"The Grand Master of Light Magic can be found in the wizards castle, Castle Lambent."	Grandmaster Light Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
580	"The Master of Dark, Seth Darkenmore, can be found in The Pit beneath Deyja!"	Master Dark Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
581	"The Grand Master of Dark Magic can be found in the necromancer castle, Castle Gloaming.  At times Archibald has been know to take the journey to Clankers Lab."	Grandmaster Dark Magic hint	James Teacher Hints
582	Empty Barrel		
583	+2 Might permanent		
584	+2 Accuracy permanent		
585	+2 Personality permanent		
586	+2 Intellect permanent		
587	+2 Endurance permanent		
588	+2 Speed permanent		
589	+2 Luck permanent		
590	Empty Cauldron		
591	+2 Fire Resistance permanent		
592	+2 Water Resistance permanent		
593	+2 Air Resistance permanent		
594	+2 Earth Resistance permanent		
595	Diseased!		
596	Nothing Here		
597	Poisoned!		
598	Drunk!		
599	Empty Cask		
600	Mushroom		
601	"So YOU'RE the ones that won Lord Markham's contest!  How do you like your winnings so far?  Had enough winning?  If I were you, I'd give him a piece of my mind!  His mansion is in Tatalia, near the wharf."		James Quest Hint
602	"Watch your wallet while you're here, my friends--Steadwick abounds in thieves.  As a matter of fact, we are the world capital of thieves!  It's common knowledge that Bill Lasker, the Master Thief, lives in the sewers beneath Steadwick."		James Quest Hint
603	"Back when I was in the army, I was assigned to scout out the watchtowers in Deyja.  <chuckling> It's no good trying to go through the front door, so I usually looked around for another way in.  Those Necromancers are so cowardly, they always have an escape route.  And a way out is also a way in..."		James Quest Hint
604	"Bill Lasker may be a criminal, but he has worked for the Crown from time to time.  Special missions, official denials of involvement, spying…that sort of stuff.  Quite a few unusual events can be tied to Bill, but none to the Crown.  Seriously, don't you think the Queen's men could find and arrest one man, even if he was hiding in the sewer?"		James Quest Hint
605	"You want to know about that traitor, Carmine?  Well, she used to work for the diplomatic corps, until she went soft and signed up with the goody two-shoes wizards.  Now she walks the streets of Celeste freely, without a care in the world for the people she left behind.  Something bad will happen to her soon, mark my words!"		James Quest Hint
606	"Looking for ""work""?  You can find the Master Assassin somewhere in the Pit.  He'll have something for you.  There's always someone or something that needs killing, that's for certain."		James Quest Hint
607	"Until recently, our local dragon Wromthrax the Heartless has confined his depredations to the hills in the south--eating goats, farm animals, and stray dogs.  But he has developed a taste for elvish blood, and now hunts us as well.  If you should care to confront him, his cave is in the north, west of the Mercenary Guild in the mountains.  He isn't always there.  Be careful--he is mighty."		James Quest Hint
608	"What, you wanna be a crusader too?  This town is filling up with them, I swear!  Well, there's a crazy man living in the back of a building near the center of town.  People keep trying to sign up with him, and he keeps rejecting them.  Good luck."		James Quest Hint
609	"Just a minute, let me check.  Mirror, mirror, on the wall… <the witch peers into her mirror for a few minutes, then sighs> It's still Alice Hargreaves.  She lives in Castle Gryphonheart.  She's quite a noble beauty, that girl is!  Takes me back to my youth, this one does."		James Quest Hint
610	"One of our finest, most upstanding citizens is William Setag, considered by some to be the most black hearted villain alive.  As a matter of fact, he's one of our best agents.  Wizards and their ilk complain because they've been on the receiving end of his schemes too many times-- but he's about the best there is in his profession.  

If you're looking for employment, go see him.  His tower is on the north shore of Deyja at a rather inaccessible point.  He doesn't like visitors, but he should be glad to see more students turn up at his door."		James Quest Hint
611	"If you're looking for a teacher to begin serious monk training, speak with Bartholomew Hume--you can find him in the village south of the town of Harmondale."		James Quest Hint
612	"I hear there are markings on the walls of the barrows that can be used to find your way around the tombs.  It'll keep you from getting lost, but it won't save you from the undead that defend those graves."		James Quest Hint
613	"A few years back, a weird cult called the Temple of Baa moved into the area.  At first they seemed popular, what with their free offers of healing, but it soon became clear they were devoted to darkness.  No one goes up there very much, now, and it seems that whatever evil gods were backing them have withdrawn their support.  But they're up there still, lurking in the shadows.  Creepy."		James Quest Hint
614	Lots of sheep have gone missing since the Baa cult moved in--and I mean lots.  No doubt they were taken to the Baa temple for sacrifice.  I'm going to go broke if someone doesn't do something about those cultists!		James Quest Hint
615	"Ssspies abound in places like this, my friendsss.  If you wish your letters and communiqués to remain sssecret, you should use a cipher when you write.  There is a book in the Castle library that will explain everything, my friendsss."		James Quest Hint
616	"Eight years ago, we sent a team of scholars to what is now the Red Dwarf Mine to study the strange creatures that would occasionally show up there.  

The first thing we noticed was that Ooze ectoplasm makes an excellent potion catalyst.  The second was that ooze just can't be physically damaged--they split apart or squish, then run back together. If you want to kill one, you'll have to do it with magic."		James Quest Hint
617	"There is a breed of Medusa infesting the Red Dwarf Mines that is immune to magic.  These monsters are a real terror!  I can only thank the Gods that these creatures haven't escaped the mine.  What would we do then, beat them to death with our staves?"		James Quest Hint
618	"If you head south past the Wyvern Plains, don't go knocking at the door of that huge fortress you'll see standing in the middle of the water.  It's the Titan's Stronghold, and they don't much like visitors."		James Quest Hint
619	Arena fighting is available to anyone who wants to practice against any kind of opponent.  You can get to the arena by visiting a stable on any Sunday and asking them to take you there.  		James Quest Hint
620	"Arena Champships are held on each Sunday.  They are open to all--but be careful!  Your opponents are chosen by the Arena management, not you!"		James Quest Hint
621	Every graveyard or ancestral burial place seems to have a haunted house nearby--and ours is no exception.  There is a mansion near one of the plateaus on the surface in the northwest.  It is most certainly haunted.		James Quest Hint
622	Fear the touch of the Ghost as you fear the loss of your life.  It inflicts terrible spiritual wounds and drains your youth before your eyes!		James Quest Hint
623	"A few wars ago, my great grandfather worked on an escape tunnel from the Elvish castle to the Tularean Caves.  I don't think it's ever been used--no attack on the castle has ever brought it down--but it sure is an interesting piece of history, don't you think?"		James Quest Hint
624	"They say that elves are faeries, but in truth we are only distantly related.  The true faeries don't live in civilization, and they're just like the stories say--playful, cruel, magical, and dangerous.  But if you really want to meet them, you could visit them in their Hall under the Hill, as they call it.  It is just outside of the village, to the North and West.  It will be challenging to get to the front door... "		James Quest Hint
625	"A while ago, I saw some men come to the Tularean Forest at night with axes and torches, following some sort of map.  When they left, they were laughing and happy.  It looked like they were carrying a big green rock.  My brother says they were a band of mercenaries from Tatalia.  Anyway, the next day was when the forest went mad.  It's too dangerous to go there now."		James Quest Hint
626	"The Tularean Forest is so old that it has developed a mind…sort of.  The forest is vaguely aware of who walks through it, but only one part of the forest can communicate with people.  That's the oldest tree.  If you want to have a very long and slow conversation, it will be happy to oblige.  Look for it on an island to the south east of the forest.  It's larger than the rest of the trees.  You can't miss it."		James Quest Hint
627	"Anyone needing to earn some spare cash can visit a town hall in any major city to pick up a bounty hunting assignment.  City councils are always fearful of the latest man eating monster or bandit or mad wizard, and set bounties on the creature that is bothering them most this month.  There's no rhyme or reason to their choices, so don't try to figure it out.  They often pay quite well."		James Quest Hint
628	"If you ever get tired of amateur bounty hunts, and want to advance your career, speak with Ebednezer Sower in Avlee.  He only teaches followers of the shadow path, though."		James Quest Hint
629	"Pirates been operating out of the tidewater caverns for twenty years.  They're not Regnans, and they aren't part of Bill Lasker's men, but they're still pretty mean.  You want to get in there, just get yourself out to the islands to the west."		James Quest Hint
630	"Evenmorn Island isn't lost, so much as hard to get to.  It is surrounded by treacherous reefs, sandbars, whirlpools, and sharks.  If it's dangerous, the Island is surrounded by it.  There are only one or two safe ways in, and the map for those ways was stolen by pirates during the chaos of the recent wars.  They probably still have the map in their caves.  "		James Quest Hint
631	"The boat captains would be happy to take any paying fare to Evenmorn island, but they don't have proper maps.  There's no way anyone is going to risk their ship in the reefs around the Island unless they have the map!"		James Quest Hint
632	"Well, I don't have any golem parts--I never took that class--but there are students all over Bracada who have spare golem parts lying around.  They aren't worth anything unless you have them all, so they'll probably just give them to you for free."	x	James Quest Hint
633	"You see all those golems walking around Bracada?  Every single one of them was made by the School.  Not bad for students, eh?  They don't have much to say, but they're tough guardians and can tell when a follower of Darkness is near.  You should see them go into action when one of those Necromancers or Warlocks wanders into our lands.  Zowwwwwieeee!"		James Quest Hint
634	"Our astrologers have determined that the missing Divine Intervention text lies somewhere deep under the ground.  Under Deyja, to be precise.  They fear that the current incarnation of the text has fallen into the Breeding Pit--the Necromancer's version of our Proving Grounds.  Oh, what must we have done to offend the Gods so?  We will never retrieve the text from that forsaken place!"		James Quest Hint
635	"The spell of Divine Intervention, the highest of the school of Light magic, has been missing for centuries.  It is a curse, we believe, for our lack of devotion and faith to the Light.  We struggle, and some go forth to find the spell, from time to time, but none have been successful.  Each time they find it, fate cruelly snatches it from our hands.  Our Grandmasters have been bereft of this final, great spell for as long as anyone alive can remember."		James Quest Hint
636	"The only people in the world who make soul jars are the Warlocks of Nighon.  It is a secret of their profession--which is strange, since they have absolutely no use for them.  Still, we are forced to bargain for the jars in order to advance our craft.  Of course, we have wrested the jars from them, from time to time...but then they raise their prices in revenge.  It must be our fate to suffer so."		James Quest Hint
637	"Every Necromancer aspires to be a Lich one day.  All you need is a Soul Jar, knowledge of the Ritual, and the magical skill to survive the journey to the Land of the Dead and return.  The body withers while the soul lives on in a glorious state free from hunger, disease, and injury.  Only shallow and superficial people would mind what the Ritual does to one's appearance.  True practitioners hardly notice."		James Quest Hint
638	"Three circles of stones were built by the Druids long ago.  Since hearing of their locations ruins ascension attempts for would be Great Druids, I can only give you a general clue--All are in the open, unhidden and bare, and all are distant from settlements.  To tell you more would spoil your Ascension."		James Quest Hint
639	"Originally, there were four Circles of Stone, one for each Cardinal direction and season, but the Eastern Circle was destroyed somewhere in Nighon during the wars between the Churches of the Sun and the Moon."	x	James Quest Hint
640	"The graveyard does indeed hold the bones of the ancient King, but the hallowed land will curse any who disturb it.  I don't envy you this task.  Each grave you open will unleash its curse, and possibly some other trap.  Best be sure you're opening the correct grave when you begin to dig."	x	James Quest Hint
641	"Though the barrows were built to deter thieves, a way was needed to navigate them during burials and ceremonies.  Near each of the gates you'll find a plaque.  These plaques are cryptic, but they will keep you from losing your way, as long as you use them.  No thief yet has realized their significance, so once they enter the barrows, they never leave."		James Quest Hint
642	"We built a tunnel leading from our Thunderfist Mountain to the Land of the Giants during the War.  It was there we discovered the Kreegan, and more titans and dragons then you can imagine.  I suppose one who's familiar is to be a dragon could find eggs in one of the dragon caves of that terrible land.  'Ware the mother..."		James Quest Hint
643	"I've heard legends that there is a dragon in the Land of the Titans greater than any that have come before.  Lesser dragons and titans do battle on the slopes of the mountain in which its cave resides.  This dragon is so huge, and so mighty that the other dragons feed it for fear it will one day leave its cave and devour them all in its fury.  The dragons believe it is a god.  If that is so, imagine its treasure..."		James Quest Hint
644	Glad you found the way in the back door.  You probably avoided a really nasty ambush that way.  I hope my advice was useful!		
645	"So…what goes around comes around, eh?  Good job with that Carmine traitor!"		
646	The dragon is fallen--and at your hands!  You are a hero!		
647	"The Baa cult is gone?  Well that IS good news!  Everyone is in your debt, whether they know it or not.  "		
648	"Glad to hear the Baa cult has gone missing, instead of my sheep!  Good job!"		
649	"I'm impressed--very few actually make it inside the fairy mound, or get very far."		
650	"The forest is much safer now, thanks you to!  The oldest tree is very happy with you, and has included you in its history recitals."		
651	"Oh, so the map is found?  What will you do with your newfound treasure?  Share it, I hope!"		
652	"Now that you have the map, I guess you'll be going there soon.  Be careful--they say the island is cursed!"		
653	"If you don't mind the swamp and fog, Evenmorn Island is a great place to live.  Of course, the Curse doesn't help--ghosts and skeletons roam the island freely--but other than that, the neighbors keep to themselves.  The Churches of the Sun and the Moon don't even fight each other very much anymore.  <Heh!> probably means they're running out of adherents..."		
654	Divine intervention has been found and copied?  A miracle!  I never expected to see it in my lifetime!  		
655	All the grandmasters are very pleased with you.  You have done our profession a great service!		
656	"Since you've discovered the circles on your own they have worked their magic on you.  I hope you will refrain from telling others of their whereabouts, as I have done for you."	
657	"During the wars between the Temples of the Sun and Moon, three statuettes were stolen from the shrines in the Bracada Desert, Tatalia, and Avlee.  I represent a group of Druids that want these shrines back to their original form-- it is critical for their worship.  To this end, I am offering a substantial reward for anyone that will find the statuettes and place them on the shrines."	Statuette First Time
658	All three statuettes are not placed.  I cannot reward partial success.  Return when you have placed all three.	Fail
659	"Great work!  The Druids are so pleased, they threw in a little extra for your fine performance.  Take this… you most certainly deserve it."	Success
660	"As you may have already guessed, I'm a collector of fine art.  Currently, I am looking for a set of paintings, one of King Roland, one of his brother Archibald, and one of the angel statue in the courtyard of Castle Ironfist.  This set is of great value, and, as a collector, I'm willing to pay quite handsomely for it.  If you should gather the entire set of paintings bring them back to me and I'll be sure to compensate you well for your effort."	Painting First Time
661	"You don't have any of the paintings.  I'm looking for the set containing Roland, Archibald, and the statue."	Brought None
662	"Remember, I need the complete set of paintings-- they aren't worth much by themselves.  When you have the rest, bring them all to me."	Have at least one
663	"Wonderful!  This set has eluded me for years!  You more than deserve the reward I promised; here, hopefully this will be sufficient."	Brought All
664	"To be declared ArcoMage Champion, you must win a game of ArcoMage in every tavern on, in, and under the continent of Erathia.  There are 13 such taverns sponsoring ArcoMage events.  When you have accomplished this, return to me to claim the prize."	Arcomage First Time
665	"You must claim a victory at ALL 13 taverns.  Until you do, you cannot be declared ArcoMage Champion."	Fail
666	Congratulations!  You have become the ArcoMage Champion!  The prize is waiting in the chest right outside my house.	Success
667	Here is the %s you have lost.  Be more careful in the future.	I lost it
668	You never had it.	I lost it
669	"People say the Dwarves live in the barren lands south of Harmondale, but that's not exactly true--They live UNDER them.  Look for their front gate in the center of the Barrow Downs where three bridges meet."	
670	"Ever since the Warlocks of Nighon tunneled through Stone City from their island, travelers have been asking to pass through the city to get to Nighon.  The Dwarf King hates this, and would like to charge a hefty fee for people seeking to enter Stone City.  He has not started charging however, fearing political and possible violent repercussions with the Warlocks of Nighon."	
671	"The Warlocks of Nighon live in Thunderfist Mountain--an extinct volcano on a large island a few miles from the mainland.  During the recent wars, the Warlocks tunneled through Stone City to transport their forces across the channel.  Those tunnels are still open and can be traversed."	
672	"During the War, the Warlocks tunneled from Nighon through Stone City to get to the mainland and seize territory.  Even though they were pushed back to their island by Erathia, the tunnels remain."
673	Dwarves live under the ground of the Barrow Downs--a barren collection of ancient gravesites built by their race centuries ago to honor fallen kings and heroes.  Not all of the barrows can be reached on the surface--many are magically connected to each other through a system of teleporters and traps that protect the graves from those who would rob them.  If you look closely at the walls you should see markings that might help you navigate.
674	"We were making a fortune in the Red Dwarf Mines until the Medusas came!  We had to run before they turned everyone to stone.  Without our mining, we have almost no way to make a living.  Not the way for a proper Dwarf to live, I say!"
675	Bracada leased the land where we started the Red Dwarf Mine to us a few years ago.  That was until the Medusas came and took the mines from our people.  Only the Gods know what horrors go on in there now.  The mines were in the Northeast corner of Bracada.
676	"When the Medusas took the Red Dwarf Mines from us, not everyone escaped.  There are still several statues in the mines.  They can be rescued if their statues haven't been broken yet, but you would have to fight through the Medusas to do it."
677	"Do you like our city?  It's not just a hole in the ground--it's a home in the ground!  Dwarves have been working this mountain for centuries!  There isn't much mining left here, though, and what there is happens to be in unstable and unsafe tunnels.  Be careful if you go to the lower levels."
678	"Respectfully, my lords, I must say that no one expects you to last long because no other lords of Harmondale have lasted long.  The fighting and politics between Erathia and Avlee will claim you sooner or later.  Probably sooner."
679	"Rebellions here in Harmondale are rare, but we've had a couple of big ones!  Most of the time lords here don't last long enough to rebel against, but there've been some wicked ones!  Not that I think you're wicked, my lords."
680	"It's good to see someone in Harmondale again, my lords.  The castle's been standing empty since the War, except for the goblins.  But they don't count, I suppose."
681	"What with all the wars that Avlee gets itself into all the time, and all the high taxes, I've moved to Harmondale to stay.  Harmondale sees a lot of violence, but at least they don't conscript.  You know, there's been so many wars in Avlee that one of the kings had a tunnel dug from his castle to the caves in the North just in case the castle was taken AGAIN."
682	"A ways outside of Harmondale there's a cave system that's always been the home of bandits, monsters, and other ne'er-do-wells.  They're called the White Cliff Caves.  If you're ever robbed, or are looking for some evil doers to punish, all you got to do is go up there.  You'll find a fight for sure!"
683	"Did you notice that covered bridge on the way from Harmondale to Steadwick?  It's called Fort Riverstride, and it protects us from surprise Elvish attacks coming through Harmondale.  There's so many traps and tricks inside there, they say it will never fall without the help of treachery.  "
684	"There's an artifact that Avlee and Erathia have been fighting over for decades.  Both claim it was made by their people, and have lost the thing to raids against one another many times.  It isn't even magical--just a trophy.  Fifteen years ago, the trophy was lost during a raid, and no one knows where it went.  Recently, rumors have been flying, and the hunt's been on to figure out where it went.  If they find it--watch out!  Blood will be spilt. "
685	"Because of all the tension in the air, Erathia and Avlee hired an arbiter to help them work out their differences.  He's staying in the ""House of Stars"" on the eastern edge of Harmondale territory.  Maybe he has some advice for you."
686	"If you ever feel like you need advice on what next to do, or you've lost something important, go visit the Arbiter in the House of Stars near the Eastern edge of Harmondale territory.  He often knows where lost items went, or has advice on what you need to do.  I'm sure you'll find him helpful."
687	"The death of Judge Grey, Arbiter of Harmondale, has put the War on hold.  It's like the whole world is holding its breath, waiting for you to make a choice.  Better be careful who you choose--this sounds like a big one, my Lords."
688	"The proving grounds, called the Walls of Mist,  is the place where all the wizards in Celeste have to go before they learn the High Art.  I hear it is much more of a moral test than a physical one.  You aren't allowed to kill any of the monsters in the maze."	
689	"The city of Celeste has been home to the Light for centuries.  It was established by King Magnus II  in 499 as the centerpiece to the Kingdom of Bracada, and as a beacon of hope to the rest of the world.  "	
690	What you see on the surface in Deyja is only a small part of the true Kingdom of Death.  There is an underground city they call the Pit.  It can be reached from the surface only by way of the Hall of the Pit in Northern Deyja.  	
691	"Celeste is the magical city built by the Wizards of Bracada centuries ago, and anchored half in the mountains, and half in mist high above Bracada.  You must use one of their teleporters to get there--you can find it near the center of Bracada."	
692	"There was another murder, recently, that's been all the talk around town.  Another body--young woman, so I hear--was found near the sewers.  Drained of blood, for the love of Light!  It's those thieves living' in the sewers I tell you!  Rats, they are.  Someone should go down there and put them out of business!"	
693	"During the War, the Warlocks had dealings with some strange creatures called the ""Kreegan"" in the mountains south of Avlee.  It's impossible to get there from the mainland, but the Warlocks dug a tunnel under the sea from their island that leads to the Kreegan's home."	
694	"We…overplayed our hand during the War, and failed to win any territory on the mainland.  Our ""allies"", the Kreegan, turned out to be very untrustworthy.  People from Enroth call them devils--now we know why.  At just the moment when we needed them most, they turned and ran, leaving us to face the wrath of the armies of Erathia and Avlee.  Next time, we won't be so trusting."	
695	"There's been quite a bit of activity in Deyja, people are saying.  It seems that Archibald Ironfist, the leader of Deyja (and former King of Enroth) has left the Pit for an island off the Eastern shore of Avlee.  A lot of Necromancers followed him there--seems there's some sort of split going on."	
696	Rumors have been trickling out of Nighon that King Roland of Enroth may still be alive.  Some Warlocks have said that they personally saw him when they met with the foul Kreegan.  The rumors also say that the Kreegan are keeping him in a cage and mistreating him horribly.	
697	"A Soul Jar is what a Necromancer needs to complete the Ritual and become a Lich--an immortal undead monster that retains its mind and memories from life.  It's pretty obvious that this is not a desirable condition for most people, which is why the market for these artifacts isn't very good.  Nonetheless, Necromancers will do almost anything to get more--their profession's very existence depends on them."	
698	"People have been disappearing recently.  Not just one or two, but several every day!  They go to bed at night, and the next day they aren't seen and their houses are empty!  I certainly wish someone would find out what it happening!"	
699	"So much for the mighty defenses.  Word is the Necromancers, led by Archibald Ironfist, teleported straight into Clanker's Laboratory and took over.  I'm told that treachery from within had something to do with it, though."	
700	"Although the Warlocks are technically servants of the Dark, they usually aren't violent.  They will defend themselves if attacked, of course, but they won't start a fight unless you start it first.  They're quite reasonable, as a matter of fact, and they take their business seriously.  I've found dealing with them to be quite pleasant."	
701	"The underground complex Clanker has created is surprisingly well defended.  The front door will keep out all magical attacks, and the island makes it difficult for any sort of large force to land on the island.  So far, Clanker has kept to himself, and no one has seriously tried his defenses, but his best protection comes from a series of teleport blockers inside the complex.  No magical invasion force can teleport past the front door until those blockers are brought down first."	
702	"We made landfall on the western shore of Northern Avlee.  Walk into the sea from the farthest point west on the beach, and look around underwater.  The ship is unmistakable."	
703	"The Lords of Harmondale!  Heroes, I say!  My cousin was one of the ones you rescued!  We are in your debt!"	
704	Thank you for delivering our people from the medusas!  The Dwarves of Stone City will not forget you!	
705	We owe you much for your daring rescue of our people.  Rebuilding your castle was the least we could do for you.	
706	"Good day, my lords.  I must say the people are changing their minds about your chances of survival.  Everyone is saying how wonderful it is to have stable rulers in the Castle!"	
707	It's good to see the Castle rebuilt and those loathsome goblin bandits evicted.  Things are looking better around here since you took over!	
708	I've heard Fort Riverstride was taken with the aid of treachery!  What a shame that those wretches were able to wring concessions from the Queen in exchange for the return of what was already ours!	
709	Looks like the trophy fell into the hands of Erathia.  I hear there was quite a fight over it! 	
710	Looks like the trophy fell into the hands of Avlee.  I hear there was quite a fight over it! 	
711	Looks like the trophy fell into the hands of the Arbiter.  I hear there was quite a fight over it! 	
712	The death of Judge Grey was a blow to all of us.  I hope his replacement does his legacy justice.	
713	"It looks like the consequences of your choice are just beginning, my lords.  I hope you chose wisely."	
714	"So it was a vampire that was killing all those people!  I hear you're the ones to get rid of it, too!  Thanks!  Everyone feels much safer now."	
715	"They say you are being credited with rescuing King Roland!  That's quite a feather in your cap, my lords!  QUITE a feather!"	
716	"Looking for Expert instruction in one of your Skills?  Expert teachers for most Skills can be found in Harmondale, Erathia and the Tularean Forest. "	
717	"Here's your weapon; if you find more ore, I'll be happy to make you more weapons."	Ore to weapon
718	"You need ore for me to create weapons.  The better the ore, the better the weapon I can make."	No ore
719	"Here's your armor; if you find more ore, I'll be happy to make you more armor."	Ore to Armor
720	"You need ore for me to create armor.  The better the ore, the better the armor I can make."	No ore	
721	"Here is your item; if you find more ore, I'll be happy to make you more items."	Ore to Misc	
722	"You need ore for me to create items.  The better the ore, the better the items I can make."	No ore	
723	The signal rocket on the west side of the island should be set of to warn ships off from approaching to close to that side of the island.  The reefs off the west coast have proven deadly in the past.		James Hint
724	Beware the marshes of the southern tip of the island.  The dragon flies that pester our town spawn there!  		James Hint
725	"Fallen or dead trees can sometimes be the hiding place of some treasure or trinket.  However, it can also be home to insects or worse!"		James Hint
726	"The teleporters of central Bracada can get you to numerous locations in the desert.  Just check the pillar in front of the teleporter for the location it will take you to.  Be careful however, some of the teleporters haven't been working correctly and will not show the destination!"		James Hint
727	"My Lords!  Lord Archibald sent engineers and artisans to upgrade Castle Harmondale!  Now we have an upstairs and downstairs!  Lord Archibald also left gifts in chests in these new areas.  The artisans are setting up shop in the entry hall and will have many wonderful items for sale!  Oh, yes, the workers discovered an older area to the castle--a torture chamber and dungeon!  We are very lucky!  I never thought Harmondale could afford such luxuries, my lords!"	Butler Text	
728	"My Lords!  Gavin Magnus sent engineers and artisans to upgrade Castle Harmondale!  Now we have an upstairs and downstairs!  Gavin Magnus also left gifts in chests in these new areas.  The artisans are setting up shop in the entry hall and will have many wonderful items for sale!  The workers, however, discovered an older area to the castle--a torture chamber and dungeon.  It isn't a pretty sight, I'm afraid."	Butler Text	
729	"My Lords ::bows:: Now that you have cleared Castle Harmondale of the goblins and vermin, you should concentrate on removing the goblins from the area surrounding Harmondale.  To the east of here is the center of the disputed region.  Many great battles have been waged there between the forces of King Eldrich of the Elves and Queen Catherine of Erathia.  The goblins have taken the ruined fort in this area an use it to attack any travelers attempting to reach Harmondale!"	Butler Text	
730	"My Lords, remember Castle Harmondale is YOURS.  Feel free to relax while you're here.  Your sleep will never be disturbed by attacking monsters, nor will anything you decide to store in the castle's chests ever be stolen or removed.  You are home."	Butler Text	
731	"If you seek aid from Erathia, light the beacon fires near the roads to the Barrow Downs, Erathia, and the Tularean Forest.  The Erathian forces near here will see the fires and rush to your aid!"	Goblin Spy	
732	My Lords. Castle Harmondale stands ready.	Butler Text	
733	Pedestals can be found through out the land that can lend you temporary protection from certain types of magic. 		
734	"::You receive a telepathic message:: My…Lords.  My name is Archibald Ironfist.  You've probably heard of me--it is I who, up until recently, was the ruler of the Pit.  With my retirement, I find myself no longer concerned with the affairs of state.  I know that we were adversaries, but I am forced to ask for your help.  In return, I think I can help you.

With the aid of equipment I have found in my new laboratory, I have discovered that my brother Roland, husband to Queen Catherine of Erathia, remains imprisoned by the devils in their foul, ah, dwelling.  I overheard that you're on your way to do battle with them (this equipment really is wonderful), and I want to make sure it goes well.  My brother has stolen the key to their leader's chambers, and has hidden it in the beastly cage they're keeping him in.  

Please rescue him!  Not even I can bear to think of my brother in those conditions!  To help you along, I offer this weapon.  It was...found by my loyal servant sergeant Piridak, amongst my advisor's personal belongings.  I hope it helps."	"Archibald contacts party, and party is good (Roland quest)"	
735	"::You receive a telepathic message:: My friends.  I know you are working with my old advisors, but I must ask for your help one more time.

With the aid of equipment I have found in my new laboratory, I have discovered that my brother Roland, husband to Queen Catherine of Erathia, remains imprisoned by the devils in their foul, ah, dwelling.  I overheard that you're on your way to do battle with them (this equipment really is wonderful), and I want to make sure it goes well.  My brother has stolen the key to their leader's chambers, and has hidden it in the beastly cage they're keeping him in.  

Please rescue him!  Not even I can bear to think of my brother in those conditions!  To help you along, I offer this weapon.  It was...found by my loyal servant sergeant Piridak, amongst my advisor's personal belongings.  I hope it helps."	"Archibald contacts party, and party is evil (Roland quest)"	
736	"Our friend Tolberti has a job for you now.  Go to him, and he will instruct you."	Evil advisors (when Tolberti's quest is ready)	
737	"Our friend Robert the Wise has a job for you now.  Go to him, and he will instruct you."	Good advisors (when Robert the Wise's quest is ready)	
738	This 1000 gold will go a long way to keeping zombies off the roads.  Thank you for your contribution.	Ambush gave gold	
739	"That's a shame.  What a coincidence, I think I see some zombies on the roads.  Perhaps next time you'll be more inclined to contribute."	Ambush didn't give gold	
740	Excellent!  Here is a crate of Arrowheads.  Pip Hillier in Erathia pays the best prices for these. Be sure to see him!	Trading Triangle 1 1 Buy	2
741	"Ahh, a shipment of Tularean Wood from my friend Robert Belknap.  I hope everything is well with him. Here's your payment."	Trading Triangle 1 1 Sell	2
742	Here's your crate of Griffin Feathers.  Robert Belknap in the Tularean Forest pays the best prices for these feathers.  Be sure to give him my regards when you see him.	Trading Triangle 1 2 Buy	3
743	Rydric has sent me another shipment of Arrowheads.  Wonderful!  Here's your payment.	Trading Triangle 1 2 Sell	3
744	Here's your crate of Tularean Wood.  Be sure to take it to Rydric in Harmondale.  He will pay you well for them.	Trading Triangle 1 3 Buy	4
745	Pip Hillier sends another shipment of Griffin Feathers.  Here's your payment.  Enjoy the day!	Trading Triangle 1 3 Sell	4
746	"Thanks!  Here's your crate of Sand. Arvin Beneclowd in the forsaken Barrow Downs pays well for this Sand, from it he creates fine bottles!"	Trading Triangle 2 1 Buy	13
747	"Ahh, a shipment of Enrothian Wine from Infernon.  This will warm the hearts of many! Here's your payment."	Trading Triangle 2 1 Sell	13
748	Be sure to take this crate of Glass Bottles to Infernon in Avlee.  He bottles the finest Enrothian Wine.	Trading Triangle 2 2 Buy	11
749	"Ahh, a shipment of Sand from Calindra Goldensight.  Here's your payment."	Trading Triangle 2 2 Sell	11
750	Here's your crate of Enrothian Wine.  Take this to Calindra Goldensight in Tatalia and she will pay you well! 	Trading Triangle 2 3 Buy	14
751	Arvin Beneclowd sends me another shipment of Glass Bottles.  Time to bottle some more Enrothian Wine.  Here's your payment.	Trading Triangle 2 3 Sell	14
752	"You can charter a boat from this port to Erathia on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. Boats for the Bracada Desert leave on Mondays and Wednesdays. Boats leave for Avlee on Friday only. If you have completed the Priest quest you can charter a boat to Evenmorn Island on Sundays."	Boat Hint for area 13
753	"If you are looking to make it quickly to Nighon through the tunnels below, you should take the left fork of the Nighon Tunnel.  Many have taken the right fork and have never been heard from again.  Then again they may have made it to Nighon only to be taken by the Warlocks!"	Hint NPC
754	"Many traders all over Erathia hire out to travelers to deliver their goods!  If you are ever in need of some extra coin, try finding one of these merchants and make a delivery for them!"	Hint NPC
755	"I can see your heart is in the right place, but your purse obviously isn't.  If you don't have the money, just say so.  In any event, good luck dealing with the zombies.  Ta-ta!"	"Ambush, not enough gold"
756	You have failed the game!	Failed game
757	You have failed the contest!	Failed contest
758	You have failed the test!	Failed test
759	You have failed the challenge!	Failed challenge
760	You have already won!	Already won
761	You win!  +3 Skill Points	Won Game
762	You win!  +5 Skill Points	Won Contest
763	You win!  +7 Skill Points	Won Test
764	You win!  +10 Skill Points	Won Challenge
765	What!  You wouldn't believe this fabrication would you?  I would never dream of sabotaging your rule here!  Gaahh!  Prepare to die!	Goblin spy (caught)
766	"I have heard rumors that the shrine to the southeast of here can send you to the Land of the Giants.  I have been to the shrine many times and it has never done anything special for me.  Or is that you can get here, FROM the Land of the Giants? I wonder..."	
767	"Scattered around the land are the Challenges.  If your ability is great enough, and you best the challenge, you will be award skill points to do with as you wish!"	
768		
769		
770		
771		
772		
773		
774		
775		
776		
777		
778		
779		
780		
781		
782		
783		
784		
785		
786		
787		
788		
789		
