#	Text	Time	Page Title
1	"Lord Markham has asked me to prepare this history of Castle Harmondale and its owners so that future generations will not forget the great events that transpire here.  I hope I can remain true to this task.  As key events occur you can count on me to write them in this book as faithfully as possible, be they for good or for ill.  It is not my place to judge what transpires here--merely to record.  


May Providence smile upon us!

Wendell Tweed
Court Historian"	Forward	Author's Forward
2	"Castle Harmondale was completed in 689 as the first line of defense against Elvish forces led by King Lothoe IV during the Timber Wars.  In a sign of things to come, It fell to an Elvish assault just three years later at the infamous Battle for Harmondale.  Since then, the castle has changed hands 13 times in bloody conflicts with hundreds of deaths.  In all but two of the cases, the castle has been controlled by either Erathia or Avlee, but those two cases are remarkable.  

In 817, the long suffering citizens of Harmondale tore the cruel Baron Danforth Octavio to pieces in the streets over his enthusiastic tax collection methods.  Seizing the moment, the mob elevated mayor Ty Vespin to King of Harmondale, and installed him in the castle.  The glorious reign of King Vespin the First lasted exactly six weeks.  Erathian King Aaron Gryphonheart IV marched on the town with two veteran legions, and put King Vespin and his loudest supporters to the sword.  With this ""victory"" in hand, King Gryphonheart then marched upon the elves, who slew him in battle two weeks later.  The castle returned to Elvish control in 818.

More recently, the Necromancer Lord Terrence Rockwin II seized the castle as part of his expansion plans in 1008.  The few citizens who survived this conquest did so by hiding in the hills for the year he was in control of the castle.  Witnesses reported signs of a frenzied excavation taking place at the castle, but when Harmondale was retaken in the fall of 1009, no evidence of digging or construction could be found.  For that matter, no prisoners ever taken to the castle by the Necromancers were ever seen again."	Forward	What Has Gone Before
3	"%30

The new lords arrived today at Castle Harmondale.  Ruling jointly by Lord Markham's decree are %31, %32, %33, and %34. There was, I am sad to say, no ceremony or welcoming party.  As a matter of fact, a small band of goblins have moved in the castle and refuse to leave without a fight.  I, for one, am forced to stay in the town inn until they are evicted.  

I must describe the townspeople's attitude toward their new lords as ""guardedly hostile"".  There is no expectation that they will last longer than a few months, little hope they will be any better than the last lords, and a good deal of fear they will be much, much worse.  Given the history of this place, I can' t blame them, but I do hope they will be proven wrong.

The traditional rulers of Harmondale--Erathia and Avlee, have not really noticed the change in ownership, but I'm sure that's just an oversight that will be corrected soon.  Since Harmondale is currently under human rulership, I expect the Queen's tax collectors will be by shortly to inquire."	Act 1	The Great Contest
4	"%30

In gratitude for my Lords' heroic rescue of the dwarves from their old mine, Dwarf King Hothfarr IX has officially recognized them as the rightful lords of Harmondale.  Emissaries were sent to the surrounding countries to herald this declaration, and in response, Erathia and Avlee have sent ambassadors to Castle Harmondale to officially represent their positions.  

More importantly, King Hothfarr was so grateful for the aid at the mine that he has sent an engineer and construction crew to make long overdue repairs to the castle and the town.  I have witnessed the work, and I must say I am impressed!  Rubble that has been in the castle since the defeat of Lord Rockwin II more than 150 years ago has finally been removed, revealing several more rooms that haven't been used since then.
  
Even the usually pessimistic townspeople have begun to cheer up.  Though most of the improvements to the town are cosmetic, the effect has been electrifying!  Business is positively booming, morale is up, and there is a real feeling that the worst days are behind us.  Providence willing, taxes will remain low, and good fortune will remain high.  The population's consensus is that nothing can go wrong!"	Act 1	Recognition
5	"%30

To my sorrow, the old rivalry between Erathia and Avlee has flared up again, and this time it is over us.  My lords' effectiveness has made this territory a valuable resource, and both powers wish to claim Harmondale as theirs.  Though currently under Erathian jurisdiction, Avlee has asserted its right to the territory under the treaty of Tularea (signed in 673).  Erathia, of course, responded to that claim by pointing out Avlee's treaty abrogation in 811 under the Declarations and Annunciation's clause.  The position of Avlee on THAT issue has been to deny abrogation under the doctrine of Traitors and Miscreants, established circa. 375 by the great warlord Sardowin One-Eye. 

There is a response to that claim as well, and a response to the response, ad infinitum.  The subject of international relations is worthy of many books, but isn't in the scope of this history.  Suffice it to say that both sides believe there is sufficient reason to spill blood, and that spilling is likely to happen in and around Harmondale.  I fear for the future.

The townspeople have taken the announcement of war in stride, but there is an undercurrent of worry.  I am sure the pressure on my lords to choose a side is intense.  I am not sure what I would do, and take comfort in knowing that the decision is not mine to make.  Step carefully, my lords."	Act 1	War!
6	"%30

Good news!  After some light skirmishes and plenty of spying and maneuvering, both sides of this silly war have decided to call a truce until a suitable arbitrator can be found.  My lords have been chosen to select the arbitrator.  The future of relations between Erathia and Avlee now rests squarely upon my Lords' (so far) capable shoulders.  I am sure their decision will be a wise one.

In other developments, ambassadors from Deyja, land of the Necromancers, and Bracada, land of the Wizards, have arrived.  They have come to announce their countries' recognition of my lords as rightful rulers in Harmondale, and no doubt to secure diplomatic favors.  Politics such as they are, both sides detest one another.  I wouldn't be surprised if one ambassador tried to murder the other in the middle of the night.  

Everyone is holding their breath.  Nothing can happen, it seems, until this decision is made."	Act 1	Truce
7	"My lords have chosen Sir Brandis Fairweather as the arbiter for the Treaty of Harmondale.  His reputation as an evenhanded referee is second to none.  On %30, Sir Fairweather presided over a tense negotiation to divide the contested lands of Harmondale and surrounds.  Though discord threatened the peace, Sir Fairweather's quick diplomacy carried the day, and a formal peace treaty was signed between Erathia and Avlee.  Erathia was assigned control of Harmondale, and the more outlying lands were left to Avlee.

While ambassador Wright of  Bracada seemed pleased with the choice of arbiter, Ambassador Scale was furious.  He has issued (in the name of his government) a warning to all travelers, including my lords, from Harmondale that their ""safety could not be assured"".  I think his meaning is clear.  He has, however, expressed hope that perhaps some day the interests of the nation of Deyja will coincide with those of Harmondale.  (Author's note:  I don't think the interests of Deyja and Harmondale will ever ""coincide"" until they conquer us...)"	Act 2 Good	Peace Humans win
8	"My lords have chosen Sir Brandis Fairweather as the arbiter for the Treaty of Harmondale.  His reputation as an evenhanded referee is second to none.  On %30, Sir Fairweather presided over a tense negotiation to divide the contested lands of Harmondale and surrounds.  Though discord threatened the peace, Sir Fairweather's quick diplomacy carried the day, and a formal peace treaty was signed between Erathia and Avlee.  Avlee was assigned control of Harmondale, and the more outlying areas were left to Erathia.

While ambassador Wright of  Bracada seemed pleased with the choice of arbiter, Ambassador Scale was furious.  He has issued (in the name of his government) a warning to all travelers, including my lords, from Harmondale that their ""safety could not be assured"".  I think his meaning is clear.  He has not withdrawn, however, expressing hope that perhaps some day the interests of the nation of Deyja will coincide with those of Harmondale.  (Author's note:  I don't think the interests of Deyja and Harmondale will ever ""coincide"" until they conquer us...)"	Act 2 Good	Peace Elves win
9	"My lords have chosen Sir Brandis Fairweather as the arbiter for the Treaty of Harmondale.  His reputation as an evenhanded referee is second to none.  On %30, Sir Fairweather presided over a tense negotiation to divide the contested lands of Harmondale and surrounds.  Though discord threatened the peace, Sir Fairweather's quick diplomacy carried the day, and a formal peace treaty was signed between Erathia and Avlee.  

In an historic development, the treaty provided for the creation of the Kingdom of Harmondale, naming my lords as the rulers and leaving to them the entire responsibility of administering the kingdom.  Since invasion is not imminent, as it was in the case of the ill-fated King Vespin, hopes are high that the Kingdom of Harmondale will last a very long time.

While ambassador Wright of  Bracada seemed pleased with the choice of arbiter, Ambassador Scale was furious.  He has issued (in the name of his government) a warning to all travelers, including my lords, from Harmondale that their ""safety could not be assured"".  I think his meaning is clear.  He has, however, expressed hope that perhaps some day the interests of the nation of Deyja will coincide with those of Harmondale.  (Author's note:  I don't think the interests of Deyja and Harmondale will ever ""coincide"" until they conquer us...)"	Act 2 Good	Peace You win
10	"My lords have become involved in some sort of intrigue at the court of Grand Vizier Gavin Magnus.  They have passed a recent wizard's test involving skill and restraint, and have embarked upon a plan to strike at our enemies with the aid of their new allies.  I hope this is wise.  I have no doubt that our enemies will surely react to any aggression on the part of Harmondale, including spying of any sort.  Our allies are strong, but are they strong enough to defend us against an attack from Deyja, and can they be trusted to help when that attack comes?

The rumor mill churns, and it seems that the secret of the Grand Vizier's new boldness comes from four new advisors he's hired.  They're always by his side, plotting and scheming for the benefit of Bracada.  That's what my sources are saying, anyway.  Who knows where these people really come from and what their true purpose is?"	Act 2 Good	The Proving Grounds
11	"Another blow against the forces of darkness!  The soul jars of the Necromancers have been stolen!  On %30, my lords delivered the Necromancer's entire cache of soul jars to the wizards of Bracada.  Though the raid will not cost the Necromancers anything immediately, they will be unable to complete the Ritual of Eternity for any Necromancers who need to become Liches.  Some may die of old age, while others will become increasingly desperate, and may try something rash.  Either way, it isn't good for them.  Now, more than ever, I expect reprisals from Deyja.  

Evidence of the damage this raid did can be seen in the increasing number of rumors issuing from the badlands.  There is talk of a split between the ""Military"" arm of the Necromancers, and the ""Science"" arm.  There have been sorcerous duels in the lands above the Pit, even pitched battles between mobs of the revolting and unholy monsters the Necromancers create.  With luck, these conflicts will evolve into a full scale civil war between our enemies.  Or perhaps the wicked Archibald will fall in one of these duels.  There's no telling what happy possibilities will become realities once our enemies begin to quarrel amongst themselves."	Act 2 Good	Raiding the Pit
12	"The High Temple (or should I say low?) of Darkness, the heart of our enemies, has been sacked!  On %30, my lords, at the behest of their allies in the court of Gavin Magnus, brought the temple's altar stone to the court, and presented it to Ressurectra, the chief advisor to Gavin Magnus himself.  There, she combined the sister stone from the High Temple of Light and produced a...larger stone?  Well, far be it from me to understand the strange ways of wizardry, but the important thing is that our enemies have been humiliated, and their enchanted altar stone taken.  Hopefully, this will put a damper on any plans they had for using that stone.

Well, there still has been no reaction from Deyja on the theft of the stone, but I doubt they will just take it lying down.  No, they are crafting some vengeful plan even now, or my historical experience is completely wrong.  The question is not whether they will strike, but when.  And where?  Here?  The town?  Or perhaps Bracada itself.  Perhaps my lords should hire a court astrologer, or some spies for advice."	Act 2 Good	The Temple of Darkness
13	"%30

Now comes a more unusual story from this alliance between my lords and the wizards of Bracada.  Apparently, each of Gavin Magnus' special advisors directed the recent missions as a test.  They are leading up to some plan, but have not yet said what it is.  I must say that while I detest such manipulation, I can't help but feel a certain admiration and trust toward these people.

This most recent test involved the location and destruction of a powerful vampire lord hiding somewhere in Erathia.  Careful thought and sound reasoning narrowed the vampire's possible hiding places, which turned out to be a wine cellar underneath a completely ordinary home.  On %30 the vampire lord was slain, and his minions swiftly followed him into permanent death.  

Concerning our enemies in Deyja, a major development has appeared.  Archibald Ironfist, former king of Enroth and now former leader of the Necromancer Guild, has left his home in the Pit, and taken with him the ""Science"" oriented Necromancers.  No one knows where they have gone, but this is the best news since the peace treaty between Erathia and Avlee was signed.  Never have our enemies been so weak, or so leaderless.  Archibald's advisors may remain to guide the Military arm, but with half their strength missing, a determined and well organized force may well conquer Deyja and relegate the Black Guild to the dustbin of History!"	Act 2 Good	Vampires
14	"My lords chose Lord Devon Sleen as the arbiter for the Treaty of Harmondale.  Though he has a reputation as a skillful diplomat, his hands-off style has frequently led to unnecessary conflicts between parties seeking his aid.  The %30 negotiations between Queen Catherine of Erathia and King Eldrich Parson of Avlee are a perfect example.  Unable to agree to a proper division of land, the negotiations swiftly ended, and the war resumed.  Many, many deaths later, the war officially ended with Erathia firmly in control of Harmondale.  The elves were none too happy with the result, but there's nothing they can do about it right now.  No doubt this incident will be the cause of another war sometime in the future.

While ambassador Scale of Deyja seemed pleased with the choice of arbiter, Ambassador Wright was furious.  He has issued (in the name of his government) a warning to my lords never to set foot in Bracada on pain of death.  He has, however, indicated a willingness continue the ""dialogue"" between our countries.  Obviously, he hopes to extract some sort of concessions from us in the future."	Act 2 Evil	"Peace, humans win"
15	"My lords chose Lord Devon Sleen as the arbiter for the Treaty of Harmondale.  Though he has a reputation as a skillful diplomat, his hands-off style has frequently led to unnecessary conflicts between parties seeking his aid.  The %30 negotiations between Queen Catherine of Erathia and King Eldrich Parson of Avlee are a perfect example.  Unable to agree to a proper division of land, the negotiations swiftly ended, and the war resumed.  Many, many deaths later, the war officially ended with Avlee firmly in control of Harmondale.  The Humans were none too happy with the result, but there's nothing they can do about it right now.  No doubt this incident will be the cause of another war sometime in the future.

While ambassador Scale of Deyja seemed pleased with the choice of arbiter, Ambassador Wright was furious.  He has issued (in the name of his government) a warning to my lords never to set foot in Bracada on pain of death.  He has not withdrawn from the castle, however, indicating a willingness continue the ""dialogue"" between our countries.  Obviously, he hopes to extract some sort of concessions from us in the future."	Act 2 Evil	"Peace, Elves win"
16	"My lords chose Lord Devon Sleen as the arbiter for the Treaty of Harmondale.  Though he has a reputation as a skillful diplomat, his hands-off style has frequently led to unnecessary conflicts between parties seeking his aid.  The %30 negotiations between Queen Catherine of Erathia and King Eldrich Parson of Avlee are a perfect example.  Unable to agree to a proper division of land, the negotiations swiftly ended, and the war resumed.  Many, many deaths later, the war officially ended in a stalemate.

In an historic development, the peace agreement provided for the creation of the Kingdom of Harmondale, naming my lords as the rulers and leaving to them the entire responsibility of administering the kingdom.  Since invasion is not imminent, as it was in the case of the ill-fated King Vespin, hopes are high that the Kingdom of Harmondale will last a very long time.

While ambassador Scale of Deyja seemed pleased with the choice of arbiter, Ambassador Wright was furious.  He has issued (in the name of his government) a warning to my lords never to set foot in Bracada on pain of death.  He has, however, indicated a willingness continue the ""dialogue"" between our countries.  Obviously, he hopes to extract some sort of concessions from us in the future."	Act 2 Evil	"Peace, you win"
17	"My lords have become involved in some sort of intrigue at the court of Archibald Ironfist.  They have passed a recent test involving skill and violence, and have embarked upon a plan to strike at our enemies with the aid of their new allies.  I hope this is wise.  I have no doubt that our enemies will surely react to any aggression on the part of Harmondale, including spying of any sort.  Our allies are strong, but are they strong enough to defend us against an attack from Bracada, and can they be trusted to help when that attack comes?

The rumor mill churns, and it seems that the secret of Lord Ironfist's new boldness comes from four new advisors he's hired.  They're always by his side, plotting and scheming for the benefit of Deyja.  That's what my sources are saying, anyway.  Who knows where these people really come from and what their true purpose is?"	Act 2 Evil	The Proving Grounds
18	"Acting at the behest of our new allies in Deyja, my lords have brought a set of the valuable soul jars necromancers need to complete the Ritual of Eternity to Kastore, chief advisor to Lord Ironfist.  The Warlocks of Nighon are capable alchemists, but incompetent defenders.  From the telling of it, taking the soul jars was so pathetically easy that I doubt our new enemies in Nighon can mount a credible counterstrike.

The ready availability of the soul jars will strengthen our allies tremendously.  Overall, this is a fine thing, but I cannot help but detect a note of discord in Archibald's court.  Reports coming from Deyja are saying that orders given by Archibald and his ""advisors"" frequently conflict, and Archibald doesn't always prevail when decisions need to be made.  It's almost as though there were two factions vying for control of Deyja, and Archibald merely represents one of them.  I hope this isn't true.  Being linked with a strong ally protects us from attack, but when that strong ally begins to look weak, watch out!  "	Act 2 Evil	Warlocks and Minotaurs 
19	"Acting at the behest of our new allies in Deyja, my lords have brought a set of the valuable soul jars necromancers need to complete the Ritual of Eternity to Kastore, chief advisor to Lord Ironfist.  The Warlocks of Nighon are capable alchemists, but poor defenders.  Even still, engaging them in combat would be dangerous, so it is with relief that I can report my lords were able to make a deal with the Warlocks to obtain the soul jars without a fight.

The ready availability of the soul jars will strengthen our allies tremendously.  Overall, this is a fine thing, but I cannot help but detect a note of discord in Archibald's court.  Reports coming from Deyja are saying that orders given by Archibald and his ""advisors"" frequently conflict, and Archibald doesn't always prevail when decisions need to be made.  It's almost as though there were two factions vying for control of Deyja, and Archibald merely represents one of them.  I hope this isn't true.  Being linked with a strong ally protects us from attack, but when that strong ally begins to look weak, watch out!  "	Act 2 Evil	Warlocks and Minotaurs 
20	"The High Temple of Light, the heart of our enemies, has been sacked!  On %30, my lords, at the behest of their allies in the court of Archibald Ironfist, brought the temple's altar stone to the court, and presented it to Kastore, the chief advisor to Lord Ironfist himself.  There, he combined the sister stone from the High Temple of Darkness and produced a...larger stone?  Well, far be it from me to understand the strange ways of wizardry, but the important thing is that our enemies have been humiliated, and their enchanted altar stone taken.  Hopefully, this will put a damper on any plans they had for using that stone.

Well, there still has been no reaction from Bracada on the theft of the stone, but I doubt they will just take it lying down.  No, they are crafting some vengeful plan even now, or my historical experience is completely wrong.  The question is not whether they will strike, but when.  And where?  Here?  The town?  Or perhaps Deyja itself.  Perhaps my lords should hire a court astrologer or some spies for advice."	Act 2 Evil	The Temple of Light
21	"%30

Lord Ironfist ordered an attack upon alchemist Clive Clanker's laboratory, which my lords have carried out with skill and precision.  Even now his Necromancers search the laboratory for traps and treasures left behind by alchemists.  

Putting an even greater strain on court relations is a successful raid from the Wizards of Bracada against the soul jar treasury in the Pit.  This disaster is sure to cause conflicts within the already tense court of Deyja.  Without soul jars,  necromancers will be unable to complete the Ritual to become Liches.

I think our allies are about to fall to fighting.  Already, sorcerous duels are being fought on the surface above the Pit between members of the two factions.  I hope my lords can figure out who will be on the winning side and join them before the dust settles.  Because picking the wrong side is sure to have consequences."	Act 2 Evil	Clanker's Laboratory
22	"%30

There is discord in Deyja, and a faction split amongst the necromancers has occured.  Archibald Ironfist has turned up in Clive Clanker's old laboratory.  Until recently, the laboratory had been happily chugging along, selling enchanted weapons and equipment to anyone who had enough money--including the pirate ""empire"" of Regna.  Having employed the pirates as mercenaries during the Succession War in Enroth, Archibald knew of their wealthy alchemical suppliers.  The fact that this wealth existed made for an excellent smoke screen covering the real reasons behind Archibald's assault.

The recent tensions between Archibald and his new advisors has been well documented.  Factionism and discord have created an intolerable situation in Deyja, so bad that one side had to leave.  Archibald's ""science"" necromancers attacked Clanker's laboratory not for the alchemical treasures, but for the living space.  We have traded one strong enemy for two weaker ones.  I hope this trade is for the better.  Perhaps Archibald will be amenable to peace overtures?"	Act 2 Good	Assassination
23	"%30

Archibald Ironfist, former leader of our allies in Deyja, has moved to Clive Clanker's old laboratory.  Until recently, the laboratory had been happily chugging along, selling enchanted weapons and equipment to anyone who had enough money--including the pirate ""empire"" of Regna.  Having employed the pirates as mercenaries during the Succession War in Enroth, Archibald knew of their wealthy alchemical suppliers.  The fact that this wealth existed made for an excellent smoke screen covering the real reasons behind Archibald's manipulation of my lords to further his ends.

The recent tension between Archibald and his new advisors has been well documented.  Factionism and discord have created an intolerable situation in Deyja, so bad that one side had to leave.  Archibald's ""science"" necromancers attacked Clanker's laboratory not for the alchemical treasures, but for the living space.  Perhaps this is for the better. It is clear Kastore's faction is the stronger of the two, and he clearly intends further dealings with my lord.  Something big is in the air, something that will surely show itself soon."	Act 2 Evil	Assassination
24	"%30

Good King Roland Ironfist, brother to Archibald Ironfist, has been rescued from the clutches of the Devils after many long years!  To think of what he went through as a prisoner of those monsters for such a long time is beyond imagining.  Everyone had given up hope that he was still alive.  The find was almost accidental.

My lords had been sent on a mission to destroy the nest in the name of humanity.  Archibald Ironfist, deposed lord of Deyja and one of the most hated men in history, offered aid for reasons of his own.  During the mission, my lords found King Roland in an iron cage deep within the nest and released him.  Further, Archibald volunteered to return Roland to Queen Catherine himself.

Archibald and his brother are reunited.  Though their rivalry is bitter, they have never attempted fratricide.  However, Roland's wife, Queen Catherine of Erathia, does have a history of slaying obnoxious relatives.  She has sworn to execute Archibald should she ever be lucky enough to capture him.  I wonder what she will do now?"	Act 2 Both	Roland's Rescue
25	"%30

It seems that Queen Catherine has made her decision.  Rather that execute Archibald, she has decided that Clanker's Laboratory should become his permanent home.  He is barred from leaving his island on pain of death.  Archibald appears to have accepted these terms and set aside his ambitions forever...but forever is such a long time.  I doubt that we've seen the last of him.

Our relations with Erathia have improved dramatically.  Queen Catherine says she is eternally grateful for the return of Roland and the destruction of the Devils.  With all the good will going around, war seems but a distant, bad dream.  For his part, Roland has also expressed his profound gratitude, and says he will be returning to Enroth after he recovers physically from his long imprisonment.

Still, there is a tension in the air.  All of these seemingly unconnected missions for the mysterious advisors, the collection of unusual artifacts, and the assassinations must be leading somewhere.  I have a feeling things will become clear soon."	Act 3 Both	Archibald's Exile
26	"%30

Our special advisors in the Court of Bracada have turned out to be quite special indeed.  They say they are from another world, and have crossed the space between the stars looking for signs of the Ancients and their servants.  They say they came here because their magical devices detected the ruins of Ancient civilization, and the equipment to open the gate to the stars and walk amongst them as easily as you and I would cross a room.  They say they intended to return the lost glory of the Ancient's civilization to our world.

But when they arrived, four members of their team renounced their long held dream of finding the Ancients.  They chose instead to conquer our world with the help of our own ruined Ancient equipment.  And they chose Archibald Ironfist and his Necromancers as their instrument and puppet.  

They say they need but one more piece to repair the road to the stars, and that piece is in the vehicle they used to get to our world.  Their enemies, the ""advisors"" to Archibald, also require this piece to finish their own project--the repair of the Heavenly Forge.  If the enemy receives this artifact, they would use the forge to duplicate their powerful weapons and conquer our world.  If Ressurectra and her team receives the artifact, they will use it to open the gate to the stars and bring the blessings of the Ancient's magic to all the people of our world.

Now it is up to my lords to retrieve this artifact from their vehicle and return it to one of the two factions of outsiders.  I think Ressurectra means well, but my judgement has been wrong in the past.  "	Act 3 Good	The Visitors
27	"%30

Our special advisors in the Court of Deyja have turned out to be quite special indeed.  They say they are from another world, and have crossed the space between the stars looking for signs of the Ancients and their servants.  They say they came here because their magical devices detected the ruins of Ancient civilization, and the equipment to open the gate to the stars and walk amongst them as easily as you and I would cross a room.  They say they intended to return the lost glory of the Ancient's civilization to our world.

But when they arrived, Kastore and his faction had tired of their search, and renounced their long held dream of finding the Ancients.  They preferred instead to take command of our world and lead it to greatness with the benefit of their superior wisdom and science. The others, obsessed with their original mission, refused to see reason and continued their pointless quest.

Their enemies say they need but one more piece to repair the road to the stars, and that piece is in the vehicle they used to get to our world.  Kastore's faction also requires this piece to finish their own project--the repair of the Heavenly Forge.  If Kastore's faction receives this artifact, they would use the forge to duplicate their powerful weapons and assume command of our world.  If Ressurectra and her team receives the artifact, they will use it to open the gate to the stars with unknown consequences, possibly opening a hole into the void or offering monsters from other stars like the Devils a way to invade our world.

Now it is up to my lords to retrieve this artifact from their vehicle and return it to one of the two factions of outsiders.  I think Kastore means well, but my judgement has been wrong in the past. "	Act 3 Evil	The Visitors
28	"The citizens of Harmondale have begun to perceive my lords' justice as…a bit harsh.  As of %30 100 citizens have been summarily executed for their crimes against my lords in the streets.  I would like to point out that though the citizens refer to my lords as ""The Terrible"" (e.g. %31 the Terrible), my lords' stern justice has reduced crime in the city streets tremendously.  Many criminals choose to stay indoors rather than walk about the streets for fear my lords will recognize them and bring swift justice down upon their cowardly heads.  History will vindicate my lords' wise policy, I am sure."	Insert 1	The Terrible
