#	Greeting 1	Greeting 2	Notes	Owner	
1	"I'm glad I found you! Of all the other guards, you are the only one I've seen! Regnan Pirates attack the island. We must inform the caravan master, Dadeross. He's visiting the village chieftain. Find him! I'll return to the wagons to guard them."	Have you spoken with Dadeross?  What are we to do now?		S'ton	
2	Greetings Journeyman!  I have been speaking with Brekish Onefang about the predicament that we find ourselves in. The Clan Leader may know of a way to get off these islands and return to Ravenshore	Have you found a way off the islands?  Are the waters safe for us to sail back to Ravenshore?		Dadeross	
3	"Welcome to Dagger Wound Island, Journeyman of Alvar.  I am Brekish Onefang, Clan Leader.  I wish I was greeting you during better times.

The mountain of fire has caused serious damage to my village and its people.  Many buildings have been damaged, and the bridges that connect the smaller islands to the main island have been destroyed!  Many people are missing or stranded on these smaller islands!  We must help them!"	Have the Portals been fixed?  My stranded people are able to return to the safety of the village here on the main island?		Brekish Onefang	
4	You must tell the Merchants of Alvar of the Regnan raid on Dagger Wound Island!  They must send help!	"We are in debt to you!  Not only did you save my stranded people, but you also returned to stop the Regnan assault upon my island!"		Brekish Onefang	
5	What?  I don't have time to talk now!  I need to pack some things and leave!	Be quick with your business. I must prepare to escape these islands!		Fredrick Talimere	
6	Aren't you with the Merchant Caravan from Alvar?  I need your help!	The mountain of fire will surely destroy us!		Rohtnax	
7	It's the end of the world!  The Mountain of Fire will consume us all!	It's the end of the world!  The Mountain of Fire will consume us all!		Pascella Tisk	
8	What are you doing here? Get my letter to Fellmoon!	What are you doing here? Get my letter to Fellmoon!			
9	"Welcome aboard!  May you have smooth, swift seas!"	"Welcome aboard!  May you have smooth, swift seas!"			
10	Welcome to the Ravenshore guildhouse of the Merchants of Alvar. I am Elgar Fellmoon. How may I help you?	Yes?		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 3	
11	Have you done as I've asked of you?	Have you done as I've asked of you?		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 3	
12	"Okay…you've beaten my guards. Truce.

I'm Arion Hunter. I suppose you could call this all my operation. What do you want?"	What is it now?		Arion Hunter	
13	Halt! None may pass into the inner chambers unless accompanied by a guild member.	Halt! None may pass into the inner chambers unless accompanied by a guild member.		Necromancer Guild Guard	
14	"Welcome to the Guildhouse of the Merchants of Alvar. I am Bastian Loudrin, the high guildmaster. From here we run the Alvarian trade empire."	Welcome back to the Guildhouse of the Merchants of Alvar.		Bastian Loudrin	
15	"We have identified those we believe would join an alliance to stand against the crisis. These are: the Minotaurs of Ravage Roaming, the Clerics of the Temple of the Sun in Murmurwoods, the Dragons of Garrote Gorge, the Necromancers' Guild in Shadowspire, and Charles Quixote's Dragon hunting camp in Garrote Gorge.

Now none of us believe that you can get all of them to work together, but with us and the Trolls already with the alliance, it should suffice if three of the five join us.

Perhaps you should begin by speaking with Sahil Ittalle who lives at the north end of the town. He is our guild's historian and the best person to brief you on our potential allies' various dispositions."	Good day.		Bastian Loudrin	
16	"I am Overdune, I hunt meat for the village of Rust. Or I did so before the lake of fire came to destroy our homes."	You are back. How goes it with you?		Overdune Snapfinger	
17	"Leave me be. I morn the death of Vilebite, my son."	"Leave me be. I morn the death of Vilebite, my son."		OVERDUNE'S FATHER	
18	Th-thank you for giving my son Vilebite his rest.	Come in…you are always welcome here.		OVERDUNE'S FATHER	
19	"It is only because you are under Bastian Loudrin's protection that I have allowed you this audience. Know you stand before Deftclaw Redreaver, Ultimate Flightleader of the Dragons of Jadame. I am not to be tarried with. Speak your business!"	You disturb me again? This had best be important.		Deftclaw Redreaver NPC 21	
20	What do you want?	What do you want?		Deftclaw Redreaver NPC 21	
21	"Sir Charles Quixote at your service. Welcome to my camp headquarters. From here I oversee this hunting expedition.

Are you here to trade? Most of what my goods are committed to orders already. I do, however, have some baby dragons for sale. And I suppose I could part with some of the lower grade adult hides."	How may I help you?		CharlesQuixote NPC 19	
22	"You just caught me. I'm almost ready to leave for Ravenshore, but how may I help you?"	"You just caught me. I'm almost ready to leave for Ravenshore, but how may I help you?"		Charles Quixote NPC 19	
23	"It was a long journey, but here I am. Good to see you again."	How are you?		Charles Quixote NPC 65	
24	Hail the alliance! How goes it with you?	Welcome!		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53	
25	And so I have made haste to Ravenshore. Already I grow weary of life among the prey animals. You had best be quick about the business of this alliance!	"Well, what is it?"		Deftclaw Redreaver NPC 66	
26	It has been a long time since I have traveled. I forget how beautiful parts of this land can be. I look forward to resolving the current crisis--the very least reason being that I can then take a long deserved sabbatical.	Yes?		Oskar Tyre NPC 67	
27	"It is good to see you again, friends. Thanks to you, things go well at Balthazar Lair. Already my herd has made great progress towards restoring our homes and shops. Perhaps you have visited the restored city?"	"Greetings, friends."		Masul NPC 68	
28	"Things go well for us in our war against the Temple of the Sun. Before I left, I saw the Shadowspire border made secure. Daily our troops force theirs back to their main temple in Murmurwoods.

Again, on behalf of the Necromancers' Guild, I thank you. Now, let us get on with the business at hand."	"Hello, guild friends."		Sandro NPC 69	
29	"Greetings. I am Masul, Herdmaster of Balthazar Lair. On behalf of my herd, I thank you for saving us. I was sure that we were destined to perish. Now it seems we will survive. I look forward to rebuilding our lair."	How may I serve the saviors of my herd?		Masul NPC 13	
30	"Wha…who is it? Who is it! You may think my injuries make me easy prey raiders! But know my axe is sharp, and…and…hey…

You're not the raiders! Who are you?"	"Hello, again."		MINOTAUR CLUE GUY	
31	"Hail to you. I am Sandro. Thant and I are the high guildmasters of the Necromancers' Guild. With our fortunes diminished in Erathia and Enroth, it could be argued that we speak for the guild worldwide.

We have heard that you are envoys from Bastian Loudrin. What is his need of us?"	What is it? Be quick! We are very busy.		Sandro NPC 9	
32	"Hah! The only advantage that the Sun Temple had against us is no more. With the Nightshade Brazier back in our possession, we no longer need worry about the daytime defense of Shadowspire. We can march our undead to their very doors. We will destroy their temple and wipe them from the face of Jadame! 

Now that the tide of battle has turned in our favor, we of the Necromancers' Guild can more generously consider the request made by our friend, Bastian Loudrin. Thant can take over here while I am away sitting on your alliance council."	Yes?		Sandro NPC 9	
33	"Who are you? I don't recognize you, but I'm sure that whatever your business, it will add to my troubles."	What do you want?		Dyson Leland NPC 11	
34	"So, Sandro has asked you to strike a blow against the Sun Temple! Though I hate the guild. I would be willing to help you. Half a serving of revenge is better than none."	"So, do we move against the Sun Temple? Shall we get for Sandro his Nightshade Brazier?"		Dyson Leland NPC 11	
35	"Ah, you are sent by his high holiness…Oskar Tyre thinks to activate his agent. Though I would wish him no good, I will do as he asks. Yes, I have knowledge of the guild's Skeleton Transformer and believe I can destroy it. Very well, let us do this thing against the Necromancers' Guild. I will at least be able to strike against one of my enemies!"	Are you now ready to destroy the guild's Skeleton Transformer? I will join you and we can be about the task!		Dyson Leland NPC 11	
36	"Hah! So both Sandro and Oskar Tyre seek to use me against the other. I have thought of the possibility of this occurring. I believe that if I were to strike against one, it would become impossible for me to strike the other.

So I guess we have a choice--help the guild or the temple. Which? I don't know, as my hatred for both is equal. I suppose I'll have to do with a half measure of revenge."	"So, have you decided to steal the Nightshade Brazier from the Temple, or to destroy the guild's Skeleton Transformer? Either way…I will join you. But let us do it. I would slack my thirst for revenge."		Dyson Leland NPC 11	
37	"So you are sent by Bastian Loudrin? Well, then. What would he have us hear?"	The Light upon you. What need you of our temple?		Oskar Tyre NPC 37	
38	"Hail, heroes of Jadame! I'm glad you’ve returned. I want to make it clear that the merchant guild has made this guildhouse permanently open to you. 

Now that the crisis is over, the other council members have returned home. Though they are gone, good will prevails between us. The beginning of a new era of peace? We will see. Certainly it is a time of prosperity! Our caravans are already back in operation."	"Hail, Heroes of Jadame!"		Elgar Fellmoon NPC 53	
39	"Ah well, very good to see you. Quite a lot of trouble is behind us, no? What brings the ""Heroes of Jadame"" to my camp?"	Hello again.		Charles Quixote NPC 65	
40	"Together we have done a great deed. I look forward to telling my heir the tale. How can I help you, heroes?"	Welcome. My cave is open to you.		Deftclaw Redreaver NPC 66	
41	"The Light has shined upon us indeed. Our temple is always open to the ""Heroes of Jadame."" How may I help you?"	"Yes, friends?"		Oskar Tyre NPC 67	
42	How good of you to grace us with your presence. Heroes of Jadame. Saviors of Balthazar Lair. Both fitting titles for you who have done so much for me herd and for all of Jadame!	"Hail, Saviors of Balthazar Lair!"		Masul NPC 68	
43	"Hail! In the name of the guild, I welcome you. Know that we consider you our friends, Heroes of Jadame. What would you have of us today?"	"Greetings, heroes."		Sandro NPC 69	
44	"If you're looking for my master, Xanthor, he is not here. Can I help you?"	Can I help you?		XANTHOR'S LACKEY NPC 77	
45	"Hmph. So you are the heroes of the alliance. Not much to look at, I must say. Still, I suppose you have survived much to see this day. I only hope you are up to the task I think fate has for you. If not, we are all surely doomed!"	You are back? Have you need of advice? Or are you finding the task at hand too difficult?		XANTHOR NPC 23	
46	"There. It is built. Take this Conflux Key. As I have explained, it will allow you to use the crystal in the town square as a gateway--much as you've used the elemental gateways to reach the elemental planes. The crystal gateway will take you to the place between the planes.

On this ""Plane Between Planes"" you must find the source of the cataclysm. What it is, I don't know, but whatever it is, it is there. Go now! The fate of the land, I'm afraid, lies on your shoulders. Be worthy of the task!"	You must go through the crystal gateway! It leads to the plane between planes. The cause of the cataclysm lies through it--seek out the source!		XANTHOR NPC 23	
47	"You have conducted yourselves greatly. I must say I had my doubts about your abilities, but no longer. You are truly worthy of the praise that all lavish upon you."	"How can I help you, friends?"		XANTHOR NPC 23	
48	"I sense some small presence in this chamber. Greater than gnats, but so much less than myself. Where is it….

Ah, there it is. What have we here? Some of the beings of Jadame? Yes. Destroy them? Surely within my rights…but, no. It has been a slow millennia. Perhaps they will provide some diversion.

Speak then, lower ones! What would you have of Escaton the Destroyer of Worlds?"	"Ah the gnatlings are returned. I must consider why I allow them their continued existence. But this I will do some other time.

Speak then, while you still may, puny ones."		Escaton	
49	Greetings.  You seek instruction?	Good day.  You seek to gain knowledge?			
50	Who is there? Am I finally to be released?	Are you here to free me?			
51	"Help me! I have been able to live thus far, but for how much longer can I?"	Will you now release me from my torment?			
52	"Ah, mortals…good. You are not of my tormentors. Release me from this place! I will not harm you."	"Release me from this cell, mortals!"			
53	"Free me quickly! I have survived so far, but it is only a matter of time before I am extinguished!"	My fires dampen. Release me!			
54	"Greetings. I am Sahil Ittalle, the historian of the Alvarian Merchant Guild. How can I help you today?"	Yes? Can I help you?		Sahil Ittalle	
55	"Ah, you must be the alliance council's heroes. Well met. Catherine and I are here to help. What can I do for you?"	Greetings!		Roland Ironfist	
56	"It was a harrowing journey to reach your shores, I assure you! But the events of the cataclysm force all to extreme duties. I'm sure you understand. But down to issues. How can I help you?"	Yes?		Catherine Ironfist	
57	"Greetings! I am Asael Fromago, the world's preeminent connoisseur of fine cheeses. Oh, some might say that Elkanah Juusto of Edenbrook holds the title, but he is a dilettante--a mere dabbler!"	"Greetings! How may Asael Fromago, master of cheeses, serve you?"		Asael Fromago	
58	"Hail, adventurer!"	"Hail, adventurer!"		Various	
59	Yeah? What do you want?	Yeah? What do you want?		"Aznog Black, NPC 409"	
60	How are you today?	How are you today?		Various	
61	Yes? What is it?	Yes? What is it?		Bazalath NPC 443	
62	Greetings. How may I help you?	Greetings. How may I help you?		Various	
63	Who are you? Clearly you are not of this realm. And how have you survived? I am amazed you have not been destroyed by the madness that has taken over my fellow earth dwellers!	Good to see you again.			
64	"Greetings. Though I have not yet succumbed to the madness, be aware! I feel its tug on my mind. I don't know how long I can hold out."	Hello again. You are still safe in my presence. The madness has not overtaken me.			
65	"The madness pulls at me, but still I maintain my sanity. If you have business with me, speak quickly. Even now I feel a compulsion to attack you!"	"I am still in my own mind, but for how long I don't know. What do you want?"			
66	"Fear not, plane-travelers. For reasons I do not understand, the madness that affects my brethren does not affect me. How can I help you?"	Yes?			
67	"Madness reigns these watery realms, but it does not rule me. Somehow I am not affected. How can I help you?"	How can I help you?			
68	"T-the madness p-pulls at my very soul. Each day is a st-struggle to maintain sanity. I w-will h-help you while I c-can, but be prepared to fl-flee!"	I s-still maintain my-myself. W-what is it y-you want?			
69	Welcome to my sanctuary. I have proofed this chamber against the maddening magic which affects my fellow citizens. You are safe as long as you stay here. How may I help you?	How can I help you?			
70	"I don't know what has befallen us, but it is awful! All my friends and family are affected by violent madness. Somehow I am not affected. But how can I help you?"	Hello again.			
71	"So, I understand you're out for adventure. I'd be glad to join you!"	Welcome back! Have you decided to take me with you in your travels?		Arius NPC 454	
72	"It is so boring around here! I mean, why did I spend all that time training if I'm not going to use my skills? Say, perhaps you could take me with you. Clearly you're headed someplace exciting!"	"So, have you come back to take me on your adventure?"		Rohani Oscelton NPC 455	
73	"I know the elder Dragons would never approve, but I don't care! I want adventure, and you're the best chance I'll see. Can I go with you?"	"So, can I come with you now? Can I?"		Ithilgore NPC 457	
74	"Would you believe the Necromancers' Guild cast me out? I, Karanya Memoria? Fah! They were just jealous of my great potential. Not that this has stopped me from seeking dark knowledge--I do so now by my own path.

Say, perhaps we could join forces!"	Hello.		Karanya Memoria NPC 458	
75	"Greetings, travelers! Ah, how I envy your lives of adventure. You know, I too know the call of the open road. I myself once sought new experiences--strange lands, strange people, and whatnot. Sadly, those days are over for me."	Good to see you again!		Maylander NPC 459	
76	"Greetings, and well met! I am Jasp Thelbourne--an Elf of daring deeds. This is no idle boast. You may have heard of the Idol of Seven Skunks? It was I who recovered it from the Temple of Eep for the Alvarian Merchant Guild."	"Hello, again. How can Jasp Thelbourne, renowned adventurer do for you?"		Jasp Thelbourne NPC 463	
77	"I grow weary of the endless demands placed on my by my so-called ""master,"" the accursed Thant. He would have me stay here in Shadowspire as a guard. A ""guard,"" feh! I am meant for greater things. An adventure like yours is what I seek. Will you have me in your fellowship?"	"Well, I'm still here, but I make preparations to leave as soon as an opportunity presents itself. Have you reconsidered? Will you take me now?"		Gethric Mercutura NPC 464	
78	"Greetings. I am Nathaniel Roberts. Without false modesty, I can say I am a mighty master of dark magic. It is your good fortune I have grown bored of Shadowspire and seek a company of adventurers such as yourselves to ally myself with. If you are agreeable, I will allow you to accompany me."	"So, you have reconsidered my offer. Will you now agree to become my followers?"		Nathanial Roberts NPC 482	
79	"So, a party of ""adventurers""…hmmm. I suppose most dragons would just attack them outright, but then again I, Flamdring, have never been ""most dragons,"" no. Join them? Yes, perhaps I will. Perhaps I will."	"Ah the adventurers return. Again the question arises: To join them or no? Yes, perhaps so…"		Flamdring NPC 465	
80	"How are you? I am Hevatia Deverbero, a member in full standing of the Necromancers' Guild."	"Hello, again."		Hevatia Deverbero NPC 466	
81	"Greetings, and may the Light shine on you. What can a humble priest of the Sun do for you today?"	Hello again. May the Light shine on you.		Verish NPC 467	
82	"Yes? Well, don't stand there tongue tied! I'm a busy man!"	What do you want?		Nelix Uriel NPC 468	
83	"Hello, and good hunting to you. I am Sethrc Thistlebone, a warrior of this village, such as it is."	"Hello, and good hunting!"		Sethrc Thistlebone NPC 469	
84	"Greetings. Welcome to my home. I am Rionel, axe warrior of Balthazar Lair."	Welcome to my home.		Rionel NPC 470	
85	"Greeting! I am Adric Stellare, a former lieutenant of the Alvar Guard. I grew tired of the regimented lifestyle. Now I seek adventure."	Greetings!		Adric Stellare NPC 471	
86	"I am Infaustus, elder vampire and adventurer. I will talk with you if you are brief. I am busy making preparations to leave. I go to seek my fortune across the lands of Jadame."	Yes?		Infaustus NPC 472	
87	"Very impressive performance. Reaching me was not easy. Perhaps you are the adventurers I seek. You see, I wish to explore the world, and these days, even a Dragon would be smart not to travel alone."	Yes?		Brimstone NPC 473	
88	"Hail, adventurers! I am Tempus, hunt leader and a knight of some renown in my native Erathia. What can I do for you?"	Hail!		Tempus NPC 476	
89	"Greetings! I am the mighty Thorne Understone. I know we have not met before--I never forget a face--but perhaps you recognize my name from ballads. You know, several have been written about me."	Hello again. What can the mighty Thorne do for you? Maybe I could sign my name on your shield as a keepsake. A lot of my fans seem to like that sort of thing.		Thorne Understone NPC 477	
90	"Hail! I am Ulbrecht, a hero of the Vori campaigns. Be welcome in my home."	It is good to see you again.		Ulbrecht NPC 478	
91	"I wake after a sleep of thirty-four years, and already I have company! I see you have traveled far. Perhaps you can tell me what has transpired while I slumbered."	Greetings.		Artorius Veritas NPC 480	
92	I am Duroth the Eternal. By besting the guards you have earned the right of speaking to me. What do you want?	What brings you again to Duroth the Eternal?		Duroth the Eternal NPC 481	
93	"Greetings! I am Weldrick Falconeye, Dragon training specialist. What can I do for you today?"	Hello again…need any Dragons trained?		Weldrick Falconeye NPC 420	
94	Greetings.	"Hello, again."		various	
95	Sethrik Fist at your service. Fine coffins made to order.	"Hello, again."		S Fist NPC 425	
96	The call of madness it burns…burns! My mind…ahrgg! Wait! A moment of clarity…quickly! State your business! I can hold out for but a moment.	What…is…it…you…w-want?		Zephyr NPC 427	
97	"Hail, adventurer!"	"Hail, adventurer!"		Davee Sail NPC 503	
98	"Ahoy, matey!"	"Ahoy, matey!"		pirates	
99	What do you want? My research requires great concentration--a concentration you are breaking with you're intrusion!	You again? What is it?		Yoel Greenwar NPC 507	
100	What do you want?	What do you want?		various	
101	"Are you the new recruits? Of course you are! Why else would you be seeking me out? I'm ex-Captain Terrence, here to help you on your way to becoming proper Regnan sailors."	"Ah, the new recruits again! What can I do for you?"		Ex-captain Terrence NPC 511	
102	How are you? What can a simple fisherwoman do for you today?	How are you? What can a simple fisherwoman do for you today?		Rhetta Mercer NPC 515	
103	"Hello?  Ah, someone else who seeks a way off this accursed island!  My name is Simon Templar!  I found my way into this temple as I was told it was the way out!  Let's travel together!"	"Hello?  Ah, someone else who seeks a way off this accursed island!  My name is Simon Templar!  I found my way into this temple as I was told it was the way out!  Let's travel together!"		Simon Templar	
104	"Greetings, do you seek guidance from the Light?"	"Greetings, do you seek guidance from the Light?"			
105	Nooo!  What…where am I? You rescued me?  My thanks!!	Nooo!  What…where am I? You rescued me?  My thanks!!			
106	Welcome!  I can make many wondrous things from the various ores that are indigenous to Jadame.	Welcome!  I can make many wondrous things from the various ores that are indigenous to Jadame.		Ore traders	
107	Halt! These areas are off limits to guests! Guild members only!	Halt! These areas are off limits to guests! Guild members only!		Necro guard	
108	"You may not enter here, puny ones! Stand back or become our prey!"	"You may not enter here, puny ones! Stand back or become our prey!"		Dragon guard	
109	Halt! Only members of our knightly brotherhood may pass this point. Others who attempt to pass will face our wrath!	Halt! Only members of our knightly brotherhood may pass this point. Others who attempt to pass will face our wrath!		Dragon hunter guard	
110	Stop! You may not enter the storeroom!	Stop! You may not enter the storeroom!		wererat guard	
111	"Hail! I'm Jeric Whistlebone. Welcome to my camp. We're on a hunting safari. You're welcome to look around, but don't interfere with our operation. This is no place for amateur fumbling about!"	"Hello, again."		"Jeric Whistlebone NPC 42, placemon area 5"	
112	You are back? Have you need of advice? Or are you finding the task at hand too difficult?	You are back? Have you need of advice? Or are you finding the task at hand too difficult?		Xanthor	
113	"Greetings. I am the Oracle of Jadame. The mysteries of the Hidden World are open to me. Through long years of training, I have gained a small measure of control over time and space. I can reach my hand through the void and bring things to me--both items and knowledge."	"Greetings, and may the Balance always tilt in your favor."		Oracle	
114	"Halt! Only guild members and their guests can pass this point. Further, any guild members with you must be at least, conscious. You have old Leland with you, but he's in no condition to oversee you."	"Halt! Only guild members and their guests can pass this point. Further, any guild members with you must be at least, conscious. You have old Leland with you, but he's in no condition to oversee you."		necro guard if leland is not active.	
115	Help me!	Help me!		Blazen	
116	"I am Lord Markham, the benefactor providing the castle that is the prize of the this contest."	"Nice to see you again, how are you doing on the hunt?"		Markham	
117	"Greetings, my name is Thomas.  I am the judge of the contest."	Have you collected everything on the list yet?		Judge	
118	"Welcome to Emerald Island, my name is Margaret and I'll be your docent for your stay here."	What would you like to know?		Docent	
119	"Hello, my name is Ailyssa.  I'm the Bard in charge of overseeing the entertainment on Emerald Island for the duration of the Scavenger Hunt."	"Hello again, how are you doing?"		Bard	
120	"Hi there!  I'm Sally.  I don't usually see people this far from town, are you lost?"	Still out here?  Town's back a ways to the south.		Sally	
121	"Pssst…  Come here, I have an offer for you."	"Ah, you've returned, no doubt to listen to my proposal."		Malwick	
122	"Hello there, stranger <wink>.  Fine weather we're having, no?"	"Did you need something, stranger?  <whisper> Get away from me, are you trying to get caught on purpose?!"		Malwick	
123	"Hello there, friend.  May I have a word with you?"	Hello again… friend.		Sal	
124	I don't believe we have anything to talk about.	I don't believe we have anything to talk about.		Malwick	
125	"Hail and well met.  I'm Brent Filiant, a contestant in Lord Markham's scavenger hunt."	"Greetings again, friends."		Brent	
126	"Hello, I'm Carolyn.  I handle the guild memberships for the Fire and Air Guilds here on the island."	"Hello, I'm Carolyn.  I handle the guild memberships for the Fire and Air Guilds here on the island."		Elemental Guild Membership	
127	I'm Roger and I sell guild memberships for the Body and Spirit Guilds on Emerald Island.	I'm Roger and I sell guild memberships for the Body and Spirit Guilds on Emerald Island.		Self Guild Membership	
128	"Ahoy matey!  I be William Darvees, captain of this vessel."	"Aye, good to see you again, mates!"			
129	"Hello, my name is Donna, I live here with my daughter Sally."	"Hello again, what can I do for you?"		Donna	
130	"Hi, I'm Grant.  Tor allows me to live in the back of his shop as long as I stay his apprentice."	"Hi again, did you need something?"		Grant	
131	"Greetings, I'm Mia.  Do you need something?"	Yes?  What do you want?		Mia	
132	Halt!  You do not have authorization to proceed.  We request that you refrain from disturbing the students while they work.	Halt!  You do not have authorization to proceed.  We request that you refrain from disturbing the students while they work.		School of Sorcery Guard	
133	"Welcome to Emerald Island.  I will be your guide during your stay here.  From time to time I will appear to tell you about something you're about to see to help you understand your New World.  If you tire of my messages (I won't be offended if you do), just click on my portrait to talk to me then click on 'Tour Off' to silence me.  "	"Welcome to Emerald Island.  I will be your guide during your stay here.  From time to time I will appear to tell you about something you're about to see to help you understand your New World.  If you tire of my messages (I won't be offended if you do), just click on my portrait to talk to me then click on 'Tour Off' to silence me.  "	Welcome Sign	Docent cheat	
134	"The shop you are near is the Blacksmith shop.  The blacksmith only sells weapons, but this one sells many different kinds of weapons, and some of them have magical properties.  You can also sell weapons here, but you won't get a good deal until you have a higher merchant skill.  To enter, just click on the front door."	"The shop you are near is the Blacksmith shop.  The blacksmith only sells weapons, but this one sells many different kinds of weapons, and some of them have magical properties.  You can also sell weapons here, but you won't get a good deal until you have a higher merchant skill.  To enter, just click on the front door."	Blacksmith	Docent cheat	
135	"The door to the west leads to the local Tavern.  The tavern is a safe place to sleep at night, and to buy food so you can sleep outdoors.  You can often meet interesting people in taverns, or catch the local gossip if you're looking for something to do.  To enter the tavern, just click on the front door."	"The door to the west leads to the local Tavern.  The tavern is a safe place to sleep at night, and to buy food so you can sleep outdoors.  You can often meet interesting people in taverns, or catch the local gossip if you're looking for something to do.  To enter the tavern, just click on the front door."	Tavern	Docent cheat	
136	"This shop is the armor shop.  The armorer only sells helms, shields, and armor, but will buy nearly anything you can wear, if you don't want to make a separate stop at the magic shop.  Remember that a character needs skill in leather, chain or plate armor to be able to wear that kind of armor, or shield skill to use a shield."	"This shop is the armor shop.  The armorer only sells helms, shields, and armor, but will buy nearly anything you can wear, if you don't want to make a separate stop at the magic shop.  Remember that a character needs skill in leather, chain or plate armor to be able to wear that kind of armor, or shield skill to use a shield."	Armor Shop	Docent cheat	
137	"This building is Carolyn Weather's private residence.  Carolyn makes a living by brokering magic guild memberships to aspiring wizards and other spell casters.  She will be happy to sell membership in the local Air and Fire guilds for a small fee.  You don't have to buy membership in a guild if you don't want to, but remember that you must be a guild member to buy spells and learn skills at a magic guild."	"This building is Carolyn Weather's private residence.  Carolyn makes a living by brokering magic guild memberships to aspiring wizards and other spell casters.  She will be happy to sell membership in the local Air and Fire guilds for a small fee.  You don't have to buy membership in a guild if you don't want to, but remember that you must be a guild member to buy spells and learn skills at a magic guild."	Carolyn's place	Docent cheat	
138	"This building is another private residence.  Roger, the owner of the house, sells membership in the Spirit and Body magic guilds here.  The price is low, but you must pay if you intend to take advantage of the guild services, including spell purchases and skill teaching.  By the way, if you're getting tired of my messages, you can stop them by clicking on my portrait to talk to me then clicking on the 'Tour Off' topic."	"This building is another private residence.  Roger, the owner of the house, sells membership in the Spirit and Body magic guilds here.  The price is low, but you must pay if you intend to take advantage of the guild services, including spell purchases and skill teaching.  By the way, if you're getting tired of my messages, you can stop them by clicking on my portrait to talk to me then clicking on the 'Tour Off' topic."	Roger's house	Docent cheat	
139	"This door leads to the training center of Emerald Island.  If you have enough experience points (gained from killing monsters and completing quests) you can come here to increase your characters' levels.  When you gain a level, you'll also get some skill points to spend on improving your skills.  You can only spend skill points on skills that your character knows--to learn new skills, try visiting the businesses around town and see if they offer lessons in anything you're interested in."	"This door leads to the training center of Emerald Island.  If you have enough experience points (gained from killing monsters and completing quests) you can come here to increase your characters' levels.  When you gain a level, you'll also get some skill points to spend on improving your skills.  You can only spend skill points on skills that your character knows--to learn new skills, try visiting the businesses around town and see if they offer lessons in anything you're interested in."	Training grounds	Docent cheat	
140	"This tent is where the town's healer is located.  You can pay for any healing your characters may need here--even raise them from the dead.  You can tell if your characters are injured by looking at the green bar to the left of their portrait--the lower it is, the more injured they are.  Note that it isn't necessary to get healed at the healer--any ordinary damage and all spell points will be healed merely for resting overnight.  "	"This tent is where the town's healer is located.  You can pay for any healing your characters may need here--even raise them from the dead.  You can tell if your characters are injured by looking at the green bar to the left of their portrait--the lower it is, the more injured they are.  Note that it isn't necessary to get healed at the healer--any ordinary damage and all spell points will be healed merely for resting overnight.  "	Healer's tent	Docent cheat	
141	"This well has a magical benefit--it bestows a powerful fire resistance spell on the drinker.  To have a character drink from the well, just select the character you want to have drink, then click on the well. There are many wells like this one in the game--you can look in your autonotes book under the ""Fountains"" tab for a list of all wells you've tried drinking from during the course of the game.The effects of this particular well last until you rest, but remember that different wells may have completely different effects."	"This well has a magical benefit--it bestows a powerful fire resistance spell on the drinker.  To have a character drink from the well, just select the character you want to have drink, then click on the well. There are many wells like this one in the game--you can look in your autonotes book under the ""Fountains"" tab for a list of all wells you've tried drinking from during the course of the game.The effects of this particular well last until you rest, but remember that different wells may have completely different effects."	Well of Fire Resistance	Docent cheat	
142	"You are standing in front of the house in which Lord Markham has set up his temporary headquarters on Emerald Island. Lord Markham is the benefactor behind the scavenger hunt you are no doubt eager to win.  The contest judge is also inside, and he is the one you need to talk to in order to turn in hunt items you have found."	"You are standing in front of the house in which Lord Markham has set up his temporary headquarters on Emerald Island. Lord Markham is the benefactor behind the scavenger hunt you are no doubt eager to win.  The contest judge is also inside, and he is the one you need to talk to in order to turn in hunt items you have found."	Markham's headquarters	Docent cheat	
143	"The Spirit Guild can be found through the door to the east.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become a Spirit Guild member, you must first visit Roger in his house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn a Spirit spell must have the Spirit magic skill!"	"The Spirit Guild can be found through the door to the east.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become a Spirit Guild member, you must first visit Roger in his house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn a Spirit spell must have the Spirit magic skill!"	Spirit Guild	Docent cheat	
144	"The Air Guild is on the other side of this door.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become an Air Guild member, you must first visit Carolyn in her house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn an Air spell must have the Air magic skill!"	"The Air Guild is on the other side of this door.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become an Air Guild member, you must first visit Carolyn in her house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn an Air spell must have the Air magic skill!"	Air Guild	Docent cheat	
145	"This building is where you will find the town Alchemist.  The alchemist sells potions and potions ingredients, and is also a place where your characters may learn the Alchemy skill.  You must have alchemy skill to make even the most basic of potions, and you can do that by opening your character's inventory, picking up a potion ingredient, and right clicking it on an empty potion bottle.  You can use a similar procedure to mix two potions together.  Alchemists know that certain mixtures produce certain results, but it's a trade secret.  You'll have to figure it out for yourself.  Be warned that some mixtures are explosive!"	"This building is where you will find the town Alchemist.  The alchemist sells potions and potions ingredients, and is also a place where your characters may learn the Alchemy skill.  You must have alchemy skill to make even the most basic of potions, and you can do that by opening your character's inventory, picking up a potion ingredient, and right clicking it on an empty potion bottle.  You can use a similar procedure to mix two potions together.  Alchemists know that certain mixtures produce certain results, but it's a trade secret.  You'll have to figure it out for yourself.  Be warned that some mixtures are explosive!"	Alchemist	Docent cheat	
146	"This door leads to the Body Guild.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become a Body Guild member, you must first visit Roger in his house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn a Body spell must have the Body magic skill!"	"This door leads to the Body Guild.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become a Body Guild member, you must first visit Roger in his house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn a Body spell must have the Body magic skill!"	Body Guild	Docent cheat	
147	You have found the Magic shop.  The magic shop is every true adventurer's favorite store.  Here you can buy and sell all magic items except for magic weapons and armor.  	You have found the Magic shop.  The magic shop is every true adventurer's favorite store.  Here you can buy and sell all magic items except for magic weapons and armor.  	Magic Shop	Docent cheat	
148	"This building is where you may find the Fire Guild.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become a Fire Guild member, you must first visit Carolyn in her house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn a Fire spell must have the Fire magic skill!"	"This building is where you may find the Fire Guild.  You must have a membership to use the services of the Guild, which include spell purchase and skill teaching.  To become a Fire Guild member, you must first visit Carolyn in her house a little way southeast of here and purchase a membership.  Also remember, a character who wishes to learn a Fire spell must have the Fire magic skill!"	Fire Guild	Docent cheat	
149	Be careful!  You are about to enter an area of the island that is infested with Dragonflies.  They are quite dangerous!  Lord Markham is NOT responsible if you are injured or even killed venturing into this part of the island.  You have been warned!	Be careful!  You are about to enter an area of the island that is infested with Dragonflies.  They are quite dangerous!  Lord Markham is NOT responsible if you are injured or even killed venturing into this part of the island.  You have been warned!	Dragonflies	Docent cheat	
150	"Um…It isn't wise to enter this cave.  A terrible dragon lives within, and few who enter leave alive.  If you really want to enter, just click on the back wall of the cave…"	"Um…It isn't wise to enter this cave.  A terrible dragon lives within, and few who enter leave alive.  If you really want to enter, just click on the back wall of the cave…"	Fire Dragon Cave	Docent cheat	
151	"This is the entrance to the old Temple of the Moon.  It is infested with small vermin that can give a nasty bite, but it's not too dangerous.  It's possible there are items for the scavenger hunt within, so you should consider searching here at some point.  To enter, just click on the back wall of this cave."	"This is the entrance to the old Temple of the Moon.  It is infested with small vermin that can give a nasty bite, but it's not too dangerous.  It's possible there are items for the scavenger hunt within, so you should consider searching here at some point.  To enter, just click on the back wall of this cave."	Temple of the Moon	Docent cheat	
152	"I’m Bill Lasker, and I am the Master Thief.  [Bill makes a sweeping gesture with one arm, taking in the whole of the sewers.] I am undisputed ruler of all I survey, and I hear of everything that happens in my mighty kingdom.  I am at your service."	"Welcome back.  Is your visit for business, or conversation?  I’m happy to supply either."	Normal	William Lasker	
153	"I’m Bill Lasker, and I am the Master Thief.  I rule this underground kingdom, and am responsible for the welfare of the thieves who live down here.  You have been killing my subjects.  I would strike against you, but I fear your allies would destroy me.  So I will deal with you, but my prices will be higher.  What do you want?"	"[spits] Hello, Thief killer.  What do you want?"	Killed Thieves	William Lasker	
154	"Greetings Rogues, how may I be of service?"	"Greetings Rogues, how may I be of service?"	Spy	William Lasker	
155	"Greetings.  I am Seknit Undershadow, Master Assassin for the Enforcement Arm of the Necromancer’s Guild.  I am pleased to meet you.  Would you like a cup of tea?"	"Ah, welcome my friends.  How are you doing today?  You really should try my tea this time."	Tea no (normal)	Seknit Undershadow	
156	"Ah, welcome my friends.  I hope you are doing well.  How about a spot of tea today?"	"Ah, welcome my friends.  I hope you are doing well.  How about a spot of tea today?"	Tea yes	Seknit Undershadow	
157	"Hello again, fellow Assassins.  My tea and company are always yours."	"Hello again, fellow Assassins.  My tea and company are always yours."	Assassin	Seknit Undershadow	
158	"Hail.  I am Sir Charles Quixote.  I am the humble champion of the people, and I am at thy service."	"Well met, my friends.  How goes the struggle against the forces of evil?"	Normal	Sir Charles Quixote	
159	Why do we dally?  Even now that monster could be laying waste to the countryside!  Tally Ho!	Why do we dally?  Even now that monster could be laying waste to the countryside!  Tally Ho!	Crusader Quest	Sir Charles Quixote	
160	Why do we delay rescuing Alice?  Who knows what plans the fiend has for this innocent girl?  Let us replace talk with action and rescue the poor girl at once!	Why do we delay rescuing Alice?  Who knows what plans the fiend has for this innocent girl?  Let us replace talk with action and rescue the poor girl at once!	Hero Quest	Sir Charles Quixote	
161	Salutations Heroes!  I am certain thou hast much to accomplish before we dally about.	Salutations Heroes!  I am certain thou hast much to accomplish before we dally about.	Hero	Sir Charles Quixote	
162	Hello?  You don't look like William's normal people.	I just want to go home.	Good	Alice Hargreaves	
163	Hello?  I don't think I've seen you before.	Now what do you want?	Evil	Alice Hargreaves	
164	"Good day.  William Setag, Villain Extraordinare, at your service.  Good to make your acquaintance."	A pleasure to see you again.  How may I assist you?	Normal	William Setag	
165	Villains!  Welcome!  Too rarely do my villainous friends pay me visits.	Villains!  Welcome!  Too rarely do my villainous friends pay me visits.	Villain	William Setag	
166	"Hello.  I am Bartholomew Hume, Master of this monastery.  Is there something I can help you with?"	"Hello again, do you need anything?"	Normal	Bartholomew Hume	
167	"Fellow Masters!  It is good to see you, how may I do you service?"	"Greetings again, Masters.  How can Bartholomew aid you?"	Master	Bartholomew Hume	
168	"Hello, my pupils.  I see you have found the proper tomb."	"Hello, my pupils.  I see you have found the proper tomb."	Dungeon event greeting	Bartholomew Hume	
169	"I am Stephan Sand, Master of the…aggressive side of the disciplined life.  Once I was a monk, now I am something greater."	Hello again.  Tell me what it is you desire.	Normal	Stephan Sand	
170	"Now that you've achieved the exhalted status of Ninja, I have nothing further to give you.  I hope my teachings take you far."	"Now that you've achieved the exaulted status of Ninja, I have nothing further to give you.  I hope my teachings take you far."	Ninja	Stephan Sand	
171	"How are you doing?  [Lawrence bows deeply) I am Master Mark, champion bowman.  I've won the Annual Avlee Tourney for the past 4 years!  But enough of me, how about yourselves?  "	We meet again.  Need something?	Normal	Lawrence Mark	
172	"Welcome my friends!  That's a fine weapon you have there, but don't think for a moment you'll best me in this year's Tourney--I'm still the Master!"	"Welcome my friends!  That's a fine weapon you have there, but don't think for a moment you'll best me in this year's Tourney--I'm still the Master!"	Master Archer	Lawrence Mark	
173	"Welcome.  [Mr. Snick barely speaks above a whisper.  There is a small, white scar at the base of his throat] Are you here to be trained?"	"You have a reason... [Snick wheezes] for troubling me, I hope?"	Normal	Steagal Snick	
174	"Students…[Mr. Snick rasps the word, then smiles] no longer.  I am proud to have helped you on your way.  Use your new weapon…[wheeze] wisely."	"Students…[Mr. Snick rasps the word, then smiles] no longer.  I am proud to have helped you on your way.  Use your new weapon…[wheeze] wisely."	Sniper	Steagal Snick	
175	"Well met!  [Leda draws her blade and chops smartly at the wind] Are you here to fight, or here to learn?  Either way [her flourish ends in a knight's salute] I'm happy to oblige!"	"Hail, and well met!  [Leda grins and shakes her head] I love saying that!  So.  What can I do for you today?"	Normal	Leda Rowan	
176	"Hail, champions!  Your courage and skill has all the tongues in the Kingdom wagging!  I am very proud of you!"	"Hail, champions!  Your courage and skill has all the tongues in the Kingdom wagging!  I am very proud of you!"	Champion	Leda Rowan	
177	"So!  You wish to learn to fight?  Well, you've found the right man.  For those of you who are Knights, anyway.  If you're not a knight, you still benefit from my teachings, but not as much."	"Back for more teaching, kid?"	Normal	Frederick Og	
178	"[Frederick rises hastily to his feet] None shall pass! [he blinks and rubs his eyes] Oh.  It's you.  Sorry, I thought you were someone else.  How goes the villainy?"	"[Frederick rises hastily to his feet] None shall pass! [he blinks and rubs his eyes] Oh.  It's you.  Sorry, I thought you were someone else.  How goes the villainy?"	Black Knight	Frederick Og	
179	"[Lysander doffs his hat and bows deeply] Salutations!  I am Lysander Sweet, and I am in charge of promoting Hunters to Rangers.  I have a task in mind if I think you're up to it.  It should prove quite educational!"	"The Lords of Harmondale return!  I am honored.  What is your pleasure, my lords?"	Normal	Lysander Sweet	
180	"Your good works have served the forest well.  And, I can see, the experience has served you well in turn.  May you continue to reap the rewards of your good deeds, my friends!"	"Your good works have served the forest well.  And, I can see, the experience has served you well in turn.  May you continue to reap the rewards of your good deeds, my friends!"	Ranger Lord	Lysander Sweet	
181	"Hmmm. Make it quick!  You look like time wasters to me.  There's nothing worse.  You know, when I was a boy, my elders didn't tolerate no one lolligaggin around.  No slackers, neither.  [Ebednezer squints and leans closer to you] You're not one of them, are you?  Slackers? 'Cause I don't talk to slackers."	Time!  Everyone wastin' my time! [Ebednezer mutters something incoherent under his breath for awhile] You're still here?  	Normal	Ebednezer Sour	
182	"Bounty Hunters.  [Ebednezer smiles slowly and evilly]  Now THERE'S a job!  Yes sir.  Get things done righteo quick, I'll venture. Heh."	"Bounty Hunters.  [Ebednezer smiles slowly and evilly]  Now THERE'S a job!  Yes sir.  Get things done righteo quick, I'll say. Heh."	Bounty Hunter	Ebednezer Sour	
183	"[The little king bows] Welcome to my realm, mortals!  Few attain the door, and for that, I commend thee.  But now that you stand at the threshold of Faerie, know that few return that dare to enter."	"Mortals!  You have found a way in, but can you remember the way out?  [the king laughs] Twisty the way, and treacherous the path!  Stay, instead, and feast with us!  The centuries pass like lazy Sunday afternoons!"	Normal	Faerie King	
184	"Ah, travellers. [the tree speaks VERY slowly] How.  Are.  You.  Today?   The trees are quite disturbed.  Angry.  The Heart of the Wood has been stolen by Walkers.  The Walkers will pay in blood until the Heart is returned."	"Are you the same Walkers I just talked to?  You all look alike to me.  But the talking is good just same.  Do you have time?  Let.  Me.  Name.  My.  Ancestors.  [The tree sighs happily, and begins]  Leaf-point.  Who.  Spawned. Spotted Bark.  Who.  Spawned.  Three Branches.  Who spawned...[Blah, blah blah]"	Normal	Oldest Tree	
185	The trees speak of Walkers who want to return our Heart.  I hope they do.  Walkers take so much.	"Are you the same Walkers I just talked to?  You all look alike to me.  But the talking is good just same.  Do you have time?  Let.  Me.  Name.  My.  Ancestors.  [The tree sighs happily, and begins]  Leaf-point.  Who.  Spawned. Spotted Bark.  Who.  Spawned.  Three Branches.  Who spawned...[Blah, blah blah]"	On the Ranger Lord quest	Oldest Tree	
186	"Ohhhhh…It's the Walkers from the South.  I remember you!  You returned the Heart.  The trees are very happy, and promise not to kill any more walkers.  Come and talk to me any time."	"Ohhhhh…It's the Walkers from the South.  I remember you!  You returned the Heart.  The trees are very happy, and promise not to kill any more walkers.  Come and talk to me any time."	Finished the Heart quest	Oldest Tree	
187	"[High Priest Devine smiles and inclines her head] Sunlight Reveal, my lords.  How may I help you?"	"[High Priest Devine smiles and inclines her head] Sunlight Reveal, my lords.  How may I help you?"	Normal	Rebecca Devine	
188	"Sunlight Reveal, my fellow Priests.  I am so proud to have you as members of our faith!"	"Sunlight Reveal, my fellow Priests.  I am always delighted to see you!"	Priest of Light	Rebecca Devine	
189	"[High Priest Falk bows and clasps his hands together] Shadow Conceal, Lords.  How may I be of service?"	"[High Priest Falk bows and clasps his hands together] Shadow Conceal, Lords.  How may I be of service?"	Normal	Daedalus Falk	
190	"Shadow Conceal, Brethren.  Congratulations on your promotion to Priests of the Dark."	"Shadow Conceal, Brethren.  My time is always yours."	Priest of Dark	Daedalus Falk	
191	"Thomas Grey, at your service!  [The Wizard bows quickly and spreads his palms, smiling] "	"[Thomas Grey offers a peculiar half smile and folds his arms] I am still at your service, my lords!"	Normal	Thomas Grey	
192	My fellow Archmages.  Rare is the individual who can achieve this status.  Congratulations!	"I am honored to be graced with your presence, my lords."	Archmage	Thomas Grey	
193	"[The Lich stares at you awhile before speaking] Who dares disturb me?  Earthly Lords?  Hmmph.  Your status matters not, once death's door has been passed."	Why do you insist on bothering me?  [The Lich's eyes flare a hellish red for a moment] 	Normal	Halfgild Wynac	
194	Death…[The Lich's voice is hoarse and quavery] isn't so bad when you've been through it once or twice.  Life was always more painful to me.  Are you pleased with your new status?	Why do you insist on bothering me?  [The Lich's eyes flare a hellish red for a moment] 	Lich	Halfgild Wynac	
195	"Pleasant weather we're having, isn't it?  We are blessed to live in this climate, and have such mild Gods to appease.  Have you offered recently?"	"Fortune be your friend, lords.  Do you seek my advice today?"	Normal	Anthony Green	
196	I was pleased to offer the Ceremony of Ascension to you after your brave efforts to lay the dead to rest.  The world breathes easier from your help.	"Fortune be your friend, lords.  Do you seek my advice today?"	Arch Druid	Anthony Green	
197	"Foreign Lords!  How interesting!  My familiar said she could smell the earth of the lands across the sea on you.  My name is Tor Anwyn, leader of the Warlocks of Nighon, though not King of Nighon.  That title belongs to another.  Pleased to meet you."	"A delight and a pleasure, lords.  Have you come for business or conversation?"	Normal	Tor Anwyn	
198	Congratulations on your promotions to Warlock!  Few can pass the test and find themselves an appropriate familiar.  I'm pleased you were successful.	"A delight and a pleasure, lords.  Have you come for business or conversation?"	Warlock	Tor Anwyn	
199	"I am yours to command, master."	"I am yours to command, master."	Possible Golem explanation	Golem	
200	"Ah, the new lords! Please excuse the condition of the castle--it's been awhile since anyone has taken proper care of it.  I would have greeted you indoors, but for the Goblins.  A small tribe of them has moved inside.  I've asked them to leave, but they won't listen to me.  They were quite rude, as a matter of fact.  Perhaps you could...talk to them?  I'll be in the On the House Tavern here in Harmondale should you manage to 'convince' them to leave."	"There's still goblins in the castle, my lords.  I hope you don't mind if I wait here while you convince them to leave.  One way or the other."	Kill the goblins	Butler	
201	"You rang, my lords?"	"You rang, my lords?"	Goblins are killed	Butler	
202	"So.  Lords of Harmondale, eh?  I am King Hothfarr IX, Lord of Stone City.  What do you want?"	Back again?  Don't have much time for [heh!] Contestants.  State your case and move on.  My court is busy.	Normal	Dwarf King	
203	"Welcome, Harmondale!  Stone city is at your disposal."	"Welcome, Harmondale!  Stone city is at your disposal."	Rescued all the dwarves	Dwarf King	
204	Everybody run!  The Stonesnakes are upon… uh… what?	Thanks for rescuing me.  I am at your service.	Normal	Dwarf Engineer	
205	Ahhhhh!  Help!  They're coming  fo… me?  What happened?  Who are you?	Thanks for rescuing me.  I owe you my life.	Normal	Dwarf Prisoner	
206	[Lady Ellen curtsies gracefully]  I am Ellen Rockway.  I speak for Erathia on matters of state.  I will be staying here in your court for the duration of your reign.	"Yes, Lords?  What would you like to discuss?"	Normal	Ellen Rockway	
207	"Greetings.  I am Alain Hani, Ambassador from Avlee.  I speak for my country, and my word is Avlee's bond.  I will always be available for any business you wish to conduct."	"Avlee is listening, my Lords."	Normal	Alain Hani	
208	"Lord Markham tells me you are the new lords of Harmondale.  Welcome to the peerage.  Now, why do you request an audience of me?"	I am very busy.  This had better not be a social visit.	Normal	Queen Catherine	
209	"Ah, Harmondale.  Before we conduct business, I would like to say I recently noticed you returned the wrong prisoner from Avlee.  Such a remarkable likeness!  I should execute you, but the war is over, and that would be bad form.  Just remember that your treachery has been...noted."	I am very busy.  This had better not be a social visit.	Betrayed me	Queen Catherine	
210	"So, Harmondale has new lords.  Again.  Well, [King Parson looks at his scribe] we better write their names down lest history blinks and misses them, eh?  Haw haw ha!  [Ahem] Yes.  Well, you had a reason for visiting me, right?"	"Harmondale again, hmmm?  Make it quick--my patience is already wearing thin."	Normal	ElfKing	
211	"You again?  You know, I was just asking my generals why the attack on Fort Riverstride was such a disaster when someone on my staff noticed the traps on the map YOU gave us were in the wrong places!  [the King chuckles, smiling] Imagine my generals' relief when we all realized that it wasn't incompetence that killed 74 elves, but treachery! Hahahahaha! [King Parson slaps his knee, then abruptly stops laughing and stares at you.]

I would execute the lot of you, but the war is over. In the interests of harmony, you can live.  For now."	"Harmondale again, hmmm?  Make it quick--my patience is already wearing thin."	Betrayed me	ElfKing	
212	"My lords, I have an urgent message from the Erathian Ambassador for you.  I am told it has details of an important event that is happening RIGHT NOW, and that you should read it immediately.  Here is the letter."	"My lords, I have an urgent message from the Erathian Ambassador for you.  I am told it has details of an important event that is happening RIGHT NOW, and that you should read it immediately.  Here is the letter."	Artifact	Messenger	
213	"How are you doing, my lords?  I am Judge Grey.  I have the unusual job of arbitrating disputes between warring nations.  The position has it's rewards, but you'll never hear the people you're helping thank you.  I always know I'm doing the right thing when both sides are angry with me at once."	"Welcome back, my lords.  Erathia and Avlee are at each other's throats again.  Feeling the heat yet?"	Normal	Arbiter	
214	"Ah, greetings!  My lords, I am Ambassador Wright from Bracada.  You know, the wizards on Erathia's southern border.  You've become very important persons!  Since Judge Grey died in your lands, you must choose another Arbiter to help settle the dispute between Erathia and Avlee.  

I formally invite you to visit Bracada and meet Judge Fairweather, who we strongly recommend for the post.  I don't mean to be pushy, but I'm sure you understand your choice will affect future relations between our two governments..."	"My lords, it is always a pleasure to see you.  I must once again urge you to consider our uh, I mean Judge Fairweather for the important post of Arbiter.  Take your time making the decision, but do be quick about it, eh?

Remember, all you have to do is visit Judge Fairweather in Bracada and choose him for the job; then take him to the Arbiter's house here in Harmondale.  I am sure he will put a swift end to this nasty war."	Normal	Wizard Ambassador	
215	"A pleasure to meet you, my lords.  My name is Ambassador Scale, and I represent Deyja, the land of the Necromancers northwest of Erathia.  Now, I know what you're thinking--Necromancy!  Yuck!  Isn't that death magic?  Well, it IS, but we merely pursue knowledge for it's own sake; rather noble if you ask me.  We're not so bad.  You should speak with some of the fellows--they really know how to party.  [The Ambassador forces a smile] Ha ha ha!

I invite you to visit Deyja.  When Judge Grey died, you became the ones who must choose his successor.  We have someone in mind who will encourage our enemies to...um...bring this terrible war to an end.  Yes.  I urge you to choose Judge Sleen.  

It would mean so much to us, and we could do so much for you!  Think about it, but don't think too long!"	"My lords.  [Ambassador Scale wrings his hands and smiles in a most unsettling fashion]  You are still trying to make a decision, I see.  You must understand your choice is VERY important to us.  

Perhaps you need directions?  Judge Sleen is in Deyja, which is the country northwest of Erathia.  You must do is visit him and tell him you're choosing him for the job; then take him to the Arbiter's house here in Harmondale.  He will take care of everything from there."	Normal	Necro Ambassador	
216	"The new lords of Harmondale, I presume.  I am Judge Sleen.  Let me be frank--my sympathies lie with Deyja and the Necromancers.  We want you to choose me for the job of Arbiter for the war between Erathia and Avlee.  Since both of those countries are the enemies of Deyja, I will be a fair judge.  However, choosing to be the ally of Deyja means CHOOSING WHAT OTHERS CALL ""DARKNESS"".

This darkness business is pure rot.  Necromancy is nothing but the study death and what happens with the spirit after death.  Sure, the results can be a little grisly, but so is making sausage and the practice of law.  And nobody would say those jobs don't have their value.

Choose me and be our ally.  Because if you cannot prove your friendship through this simple act, what else can you be but our enemy?  Remember, though, that once you choose me, you cannot later change your mind.  Your choice is permanent."	"Still considering your choice, I see.  Let me remind you of what's at stake:  [The Ambassador holds up a finger]

The length of the war--The longer it lasts, the better off we'll all be.  Erathia and Avlee will be weaker, and unable to interfere in our affairs.

You will be allying with us.  There are things we can teach you...

Most importantly, YOU WILL CHOOSE THE PATH OF DARKNESS.  This choice cannot be withdrawn."	Normal	Evil Arbiter	
217	"Thank you for choosing me.  You will not regret your choice, I assure you.  The only thing that remains is for you to return to Harmondale with me, and bring me to the Judge Grey's old house.  I'll take it from there."	"We need to go to Judge Grey's old house in Harmondale.  Only then can I start my new job and begin to ""sort out this mess"".  [Heh!]"	Chosen	Evil Arbiter	
218	"You have made the right choice, my lords.  The leader of Deyja, Archibald Ironfist, would like to speak with you.  From the Deyja Moors, enter the Hall of the Pit and make your way to the Pit.  Archibald awaits you in Castle Gloaming in the Pit.  Try not to keep him waiting."	"I am happy to see you again, my lords.  Deyja is very pleased with the way things have turned out.  Is there anything I can do for you?"	Installed	Evil Arbiter	
219	"Hello.  I've been expecting you.  I am Judge Fairweather.  I think it's important you understand that I DO work for Bracada, but I am neutral on the Erathia - Avlee war.  Obviously, we want you to hire me as the Arbiter over this conflict, and I will be a fair judge.  We need you to understand, however, that choosing me as the Arbiter will be CHOOSING THE PATH OF LIGHT.

It is the right choice.  I will put an end to this destructive war as quickly as possible, and minimize deaths.  All you have to do is make a decision.

Please choose the path of light, and reject evil.  Be our ally.  Just remember that whatever choice you make will be a permanent one."	"No decision yet?  Why do you waver in the face of what is clearly the moral choice?  Think about it:

Choosing me puts an end to the war quickly.  Many people will have you to thank for saving their lives.

You will be allying with Bracada, and rejecting Deyja.  All the Light has to offer will be yours to learn.

Most importantly, you will be CHOOSING THE PATH OF LIGHT.  This choice is permanent, and cannot be withdrawn."	Normal	Good Arbiter	
220	"Thank the heavens for guiding you right!  This is the best decision you have ever made, even if you don't believe it now.  The only thing left to do is for you to return to Harmondale with me, and bring me to Judge Grey's old house.  I'll see that matters are handled correctly."	We need to go to Judge Grey's old house in Harmondale.  Only then can I start my new job and put this horrible war to an end.	Chosen	Good Arbiter	
221	"You have made the wise choice, my lords.  Gavin Magnus, leader of the Wizards, would like to speak with you.  Go to the Bracada Desert-- the teleporter to Celeste will function now, and use it to enter Celeste.  Gavin awaits you in Castle Lambent.  Time is precious; don't waste it dallying around."	"I am happy to see you again, my lords.  Bracada is very pleased with the way things have turned out.  Is there anything I can do for you?"	Installed	Good Arbiter	
222	"New Lords from Harmondale, I see.  Well, I am pleased to meet you at last.  I am sure the relationship between our two governments will be a long and mutually beneficial one.  You've made the right choice in allying with us.  There is much we need to talk about, but my advisors first insist that you walk the Wizards' Path before our relationship can progress.

I know this test seems silly, but I assure its purpose is not.  You can take the test whenever you feel ready.  And if you fail today, you can always come back and try it another day."	"Always good to see you, my friends.  Do you feel up to completing my little test?"	Normal	Gavin Magnus	
223	"Welcome back, my friends.  My advisors are anxious to speak with you.  "	"Welcome back, my friends.  My advisors are anxious to speak with you.  "	Finished Proving Ground	Gavin Magnus	
224	"I am very lucky to have friends such as you.  We've come far, and only have a little further to go.  My most unusual advisors have great plans…plans that require the aid of you, my steadfast allies.  I'm confident you're up to it."	"I am very lucky to have friends such as you.  We've come far, and only have a little further to go.  My most unusual advisors have great plans…plans that require the aid of you, my steadfast allies.  I'm confident you're up to it."	Finished all Good quests	Gavin Magnus	
225	"[Resurectra smiles, and curtseys] Lords.  I am Resurectra, chief advisor to King Magnus.  We are pleased you chose Judge Fairweather as the arbiter in the Erathia-Avlee conflict.  It's a sign of your good intentions.  However, if we are to have further dealings, you must first complete the King's test.  We do not have time for the the uncommitted or the faint of heart.

After you are done with his test, return to me, and we will talk.  Rest assured you will find your alliance with us profitable."	"Hello again, Lords.  You haven't completed the King's test yet.  I will not deal with you until you have finished his test.  Return to me when you are done."	No Proving Grounds	Resurectra	
226	"I am glad you passed the King's test.  It shows you are dedicated to the Path of Light.  Now we should get down to business.  My fellow advisors and I have some work for you if you're willing.  You will, of course, be rewarded.  And always remember, that whatever we ask of you, we are always moving toward a noble goal, one you will be proud to have been a part of."	"Always a pleasure to see you, Lords."	Normal	Resurectra	
227	"Once again, thanks for completing the key for us.  We are in your debt for that act alone.  I'm sure we will be even more in your debt in the near future."	"Always a pleasure to see you, Lords."	Completed Temple of Dark Mission	Resurectra	
228	"Dark ones!  You have no idea what dreams you've discarded in favor of petty power.  Begone from here, and trouble us no more."	[Sigh] Why have you returned?  I want nothing to do with you.	Party Evil	Resurectra	
229	"Now that you have completed the Test, I too, have a request of you.  Unlike my friends, mine has little to do with advancing toward the Goal, but it is important nonetheless."	"It's good to see you again, lords.  I hope all is well with you and your realm."	Normal	Crag Hack	
230	"I just want to say again that you've done a good thing.  Not only have we kept our promise to Queen Catherine, but we have rid the world of another monster.  Thank you."	"It's good to see you again, lords.  I hope all is well with you and your realm."	Completed Vampire Mission	Crag Hack	
231	"What do you want, evil ones?  My axe itches for a chance at your throats."	I have nothing to say to you!	Party Evil	Crag Hack	
232	"I'm pleased to hear you passed the test.  We must attack our enemies before they get too strong.  I have a plan I think will do lasting damage to their noxious brotherhood.  It's dangerous but bold, and cowards such as they will never expect it."	"Ah, welcome back my lords.  I hope all is well."	Normal	Sir Caneghem	
233	Glad you're here.  You'll be happy to know we've ordered a golem to bury the empty soul jars somewhere and forget where it put them.  They'll never be seen again.	"Ah, welcome back my lords.  I hope all is well."	Completed Soul Jars	Sir Caneghem	
234	"Oh, good, a visit from our enemies.  That always makes me so happy!  Come back anytime, so our guards can have another try at your lives, knaves!"	Our guards missed you again?  I'll have to talk to them about that.	Party Evil	Sir Caneghem	
235	"Like my friends, I have a task for you as well, but now is not the time.  Finish their work first, then I will tell you about my mission."	I'm happy you're still alive and working for the Light.  Come and see me when you've finished my friend's tasks.	Not finished with good	Robert the Wise	
236	"You've finished their missions.  Good.  Our conflict with the Necromancers is rapidly coming to a conclusion.  I have a dangerous, but critical mission for you.  The future of your…er, our world depends on your success."	"I'm glad you're back, friends.  "	Normal	Robert the Wise	
237	"Pleased to make your acquaintance.  My name is Kastore, chief advisor to Lord Ironfist.  [Kastore makes a sweeping gesture toward the other advisors] My associates and I agree that you've shown excellent taste so far over your choice of Judge Sleen in the Erathia affair.  I think future relations between Deyja and Harmondale will be quite rosy and profitable for all involved.

However, I never trust someone I just met.  Before we can do business, you'll have to prove that you're...our kind of people.  Lord Ironfist has a test he likes to put new Necromancer recruits through.  If you can pass it, return to me and we'll talk more."	"Although there are many things we could do for one another, you must first pass Lord Ironfist's test.  [Kastore snorts derisively] Because if you can't even pass THAT sorry test, what good are you to me, let alone yourselves?"	Not finished with Breeding Pit	Kastore	
238	"So you passed the test!  Good!  Now we can get down to business.  You'll find that working for us…[Kastore shakes his head, and starts over] No.  You'll find that working with us will advance our mutual goals and interests very quickly.  We have big plans--plans big enough to include aggressive people like yourselves.  As time passes, we will reveal our biggest plans to you."	"[Kastore smiles] Welcome back, allies.  I trust you are well?"	Normal	Kastore	
239	"I would like to take this moment to thank you, again, for all the work you have done for us.  The time fast approaches that our greatest plans will come to fruition, and we will all be elevated to the highest status!  Stick by us awhile longer, and your rewards will be greater that you have ever dreamed!"	"[Kastore smiles] Welcome back, allies.  I trust you are well?"	Completed all Evil	Kastore	
240	"Lords of Harmondale, is it? [Kastore spits on the ground] What are you doing here?  Better return home and watch your border!  Something dark may cross it during the night…"	What now?!? Wasn't it hard enough to get here the first time?  Do you think we have anything at all to say to each other?  Begone!	Party Good	Kastore	
241	"Hello!  I am Maximus.  Good to have you on our side.  I'm glad you survived the Test.  I'm against wasting good talent on that test, but my associates insist.  [sigh]  What can you do?"	"Glad to have you back, allies."	Normal	Maximus	
242	"I really can't thank you enough for bringing those jars back to us.  The Necromancers have been clamoring for their delivery for months!  This will improve morale around here 100%!  Once again, thanks!"	"Glad to have you back, allies."	Completed Jars	Maximus	
243	"I have nothing to say to you, cowards!  One day, you and your entire town will be working in the mines for us!"	"I have nothing to say to you, cowards!  One day, you and your entire town will be working in the mines for us!"	Party Good	Maximus	
244	"I knew you would pass that Test!  It really isn't that hard, if you are properly determined.  You just have to harden your heart and do what must be done.  The mission I have in mind for you will require that same resolve.  After you passed that test, I'm sure you're up to it!"	"Welcome, allies.  Always good to have you back."	Normal	Dark Shade	
245	"Excellent work at Clanker's Laboratory!  I know I already congratulated you on a job well done, but I just can't get over how well executed that entire plan was!  The boys in the lab tell me they've already got most of old Clanker's body back together again, and they've animated the reassembled corpse.  They've got him on Soul Jar research, but he's not quite as clever as he used to be, I'm told.  Oh well, at least we don't need to fear him turning on us, eh?"	"Welcome, allies.  Always good to have you back."	Completed Clanker	Dark Shade	
246	"Honestly, didn't you people get the hint when all our minions were attacking you?  We don't want you down here!  And it doesn't do you any good blowing up our zombies--we just reanimate them!  "	"Honestly, didn't you people get the hint when all our minions were attacking you?  We don't want you down here!  And it doesn't do you any good blowing up our zombies--we just reanimate them!  "	Party Good	Dark Shade	
247	"I, too, have a task for you in mind, but it will have to wait until you are done with my associates' missions.  Return to me once you have finished their tasks."	Glad you're still on our side!  Come and see me when you're done with my associates' missions.	Not finished with good	Tolberti	
248	"Now that you've finished my associate's tasks, I am ready to give you a much more dangerous, but very critical mission.  Our plans hinge on your success.  I know I can count on you.

Oh, I almost forgot to mention!  Archibald is no longer in charge.  He left in a huff after we disagreed with how we should proceed with our plans.  He's moved into Clanker's laboratory now, and taken some of the less...motivated necromancers with him.  No loss there.  Kastore is King of the Pit, now."	"Welcome, friends."	Normal	Tolberti	
249	"[Archibald smiles and rubs his hands together slowly] Our new allies from Harmondale!  Good to meet you in person at last.  I want to say right now that you chose the right side.  Anyone who has ever dealt with me knows I am a fair man to work for, and I reward loyalty well.  Stand by me, and you will go farther than you ever dreamed! 

While I am grateful that you chose us, and have complete confidence in your abilities and loyalties, my advisors do not.  That's ok, because they're here to question my judgement.  They believe that you don't have the stomach to work for us, and have devised a little test of your...determination.  I know it's annoying, but until you pass the test, they refuse to have anything to do with you.  I'm sure you understand."	"How goes your preparations for the test?  You can take it anytime you want…just walk on down to the Breeding Pit and jump in.  [Archibald smiles, his face half hidden in shadow] It's always open."	Normal	Archibald	
250	"Hello, my friends…you are still my friends, aren't you?  My ""advisors"", my ""lieutenants"" [Archibald spits out the words], have the Pit, and their dreams of conquest.  I have come to realize they did not need me, nor did they want to study our art.  

They want a world where there are no Kings, no loyalty, and no honor.  Just them and their slaves.  Well, they can have it!  After the soul jars were stolen, my lieutenants just shrugged, as though it was wagon wheels, or chickens that went missing, not the keys to immortality!  We were so close to devising a way to keep the body from decay after the Ritual was performed!  Now this--a setback that will cost decades.

So, we have moved here--thanks to you--to continue our studies.  For what it's worth, I have renounced my claim to the throne of Enroth.  I don't think anyone believes me, but that shouldn't matter.  This island is quite secure, and we have fixed the breech that let you infiltrate it in the first place. "	"Good to see you again, my friends.  You are welcome to visit anytime."	In Clanker's Lab	Archibald	
251	"Find what you're looking for?  Don't worry--I'm not too angry that you invaded.  Most of my minions will regenerate, one way or the other.  There's not even much treasure left.

[Sigh] Well, if you're here to fight us in the name of the Light, don't bother.  I've given up the conquest business.  My former allies [Archibald spits on the ground] have abandoned our great achievements in the arts of Necromancy, and now seek merely to conquer the world.  I have little doubt they will succeed.  It won't go well for you and your masters if they do.

[Archibald looks at you more closely, now] Then again, perhaps they won't.  You have the smell of fate about you, as though you are destined for great things.  Perhaps you will stop them.  But smart money still bets against you."	"Back for more target practice?  You know, if you wait long enough, my people will regenerate.  Bigger challenge then."	"Clanker's, Party Good"	Archibald	
252	"Welcome back, allies.  My advisors are eager to speak with you."	"Welcome back, allies.  My advisors are eager to speak with you."	Completed Breeding Pit	Archibald	
253	"Excuse me, but visitors are not allowed here in Fort Riverstride.  I'm afraid I have to ask you to leave.  Any attempt to go further into the fort will be treated as hostile action, and will be dealt with as such."	"Excuse me, but visitors are not allowed here in Fort Riverstride.  I'm afraid I have to ask you to leave.  Any attempt to go further into the fort will be treated as hostile action, and will be dealt with as such."	Fort Riverstride Guard		
254	"This Watchtower preserves the borders of Deyja.  Visitors are not allowed in here, so you will have to leave.  If you attempt to enter further into the tower, you will be killed without hesitation."	"This Watchtower preserves the borders of Deyja.  Visitors are not allowed in here, so you will have to leave.  If you attempt to enter further into the tower, you will be killed without hesitation."	Watchtower 6 Guard		
255	Halt!  You have no business past this point.  Only those who have proved their purity may enter the holy sanctum. 	Halt!  You have no business past this point.  Only those who have proved their purity may enter the holy sanctum. 	Temple of Light Guard		
256	"What have we here?  Did you honestly think you could tread safely amongst the power of the shadows?  It would not be safe for you, and you are not allowed past this point."	"What have we here?  Did you honestly think you could tread safely amongst the power of the shadows?  It would not be safe for you, and you are not allowed past this point."	Temple of Dark Guard		
257	"Halt!  You do not have authorization to proceed this way.  If you are looking for Queen Catherine's throne room, it is in the center of the castle behind the main staircase."	"Halt!  You do not have authorization to proceed this way.  If you are looking for Queen Catherine's throne room, it is in the center of the castle behind the main staircase."	Castle Gryphonheart Guard		
258	"Halt!  Visitors aren't permitted in this section of the castle.  If you are looking for King Parson's throne room, take the lift down and follow the left corridor."	"Halt!  Visitors aren't permitted in this section of the castle.  If you are looking for King Parson's throne room, take the lift down and follow the left corridor."	Castle Navan Guard		
259	"Halt!  Access to these areas is denied on orders from Gavin Magnus himself.  If you are looking for his throne room, go north from the entrance as far as you can, then go west as far as you can, and his throne room is to the north."	"Halt!  Access to these areas is denied on orders from Gavin Magnus himself.  If you are looking for his throne room, go north from the entrance as far as you can, then go west as far as you can, and his throne room is to the north."	Castle Lambent Guard		
260	"Halt!  You don't have permission to proceed through this area.  If you are looking for the throne room, you must go north from the entrance to the main room.  Then follow the small west passage to the waiting ship.  Use the ship's rudder to maneuver downstream and then exit the ship and proceed in the doorway."	"Halt!  You don't have permission to proceed through this area.  If you are looking for the throne room, you must go north from the entrance to the main room.  Then follow the small west passage to the waiting ship.  Use the ship's rudder to maneuver downstream and then exit the ship and proceed in the doorway."	Castle Gloaming Guard		
261	Greetings!  My name is Eric Swarrel-- I run the information desk here in the School of Sorcery.	"Hello again, what can I do for you?"	Eric-- School of Sorcery Receptionist		
262	Thanks for rescuing me!  Please take me back to Erathia as soon as you can.	Are we almost back to Erathia?  I have information for Queen Catherine that cannot wait.	Loren Steel		
263	"Excellent decision to assist King Parson.  Just get me to Queen Catherine, and I'll handle the rest."	"Excellent decision to assist King Parson.  Just get me to Queen Catherine, and I'll handle the rest."	Fake Loren Steel		
264	"Halt!  Lord Markham doesn't want visitors wandering around his house.  If you came to speak with him, he's in his chamber directly north from the entrance."	"Halt!  Lord Markham doesn't want visitors wandering around his house.  If you came to speak with him, he's in his chamber directly north from the entrance."	Markham's House Guard		
265	"My lords, I have been dispatched by the ambassadors from Erathia and Avlee to inform you of Judge Grey's untimely death.  We believe it was a heart attack, and there is no reason to suspect foul play.  

However, they wish to speak to you at once, and urge you to return to your castle.  They have declared a truce until a successor can be found for Judge Grey."	"My lords, I have been dispatched by the ambassadors from Erathia and Avlee to inform you of Judge Grey's untimely death.  We believe it was a heart attack, and there is no reason to suspect foul play.  

However, they wish to speak to you at once, and urge you to return to your castle.  They have declared a truce until a successor can be found for Judge Grey."		Messenger	
266	"Oh, the new lords of Harmondale!  Just the persons I needed to see! "	"Oh, the new lords of Harmondale!  Just the persons I needed to see! "		Withern	
267	Thanks for returning the Lantern of Light.  Ceremonies can continue normally at the temple!	Thanks for returning the Lantern of Light.  Ceremonies can continue normally at the temple!		Withern	
268	"Ah, the Lords of Harmondale. Perhaps you can be of assistance to me?"	"Ah, the Lords of Harmondale. Perhaps you can be of assistance to me?"		Haldar	
269	My thanks for returning Haldar's remains!	My thanks for returning Haldar's remains!		Haldar	
270	"Lords of Harmondale, I need your help!"	"Lords of Harmondale, I need your help!"		Davrick	
271	Thanks for returning my signet ring and restoring my business!	Thanks for returning my signet ring and restoring my business!		Davrick	
272	"Greetings, you must be the Lords of Harmondale.  I am a collector of the finest historical items, perhaps you can deliver something to me?"	"Greetings, you must be the Lords of Harmondale.  I am a collector of the finest historical items, perhaps you can deliver something to me?"		Norbert	
273	Thank you for returning the Parson's Quill sent by Lord Markham.  You help has made my collection complete!	Thank you for returning the Parson's Quill sent by Lord Markham.  You help has made my collection complete!		Norbert	
274	"Greetings!  You're the new Lords of Harmondale, if I'm not mistaken.  Do you have a moment to assist me?"	"Hello again, Lords."		Johann	
275	Thank you so much for returning the Faerie Pipes to me!  I would have never been able to brave the Hall under the Hill myself.	Thank you so much for returning the Faerie Pipes to me!  I would have never been able to brave the Hall under the Hill myself.		Johann	
276	"My…'lords,' I have a message for you from Niles Stantley, an associate of Mr. Malwick, whom I'm sure you've already met.  I'd advise you to read this message and act on it with all due speed… Mr. Stantley does so admire punctuality."	"I bring you news from Harmondale.  It seems members of the Mercenary Guild have found it quite the easy pickings, and have begun looting the city and the castle there."		Messenger	
277	"Greetings, my friends.  I've come to collect on the deal you made with my associate, Mr. Malwick.  I trust you remember him from Emerald Isle?  "	"Hello again.  I hope, for your sake, you're complying with my request."		Niles Stantley	
278	"Hello, my lords.  Do you have a moment to assist an old dwarf in need?"	Please assist us; Stone City would be in your debt.		Spark Burnkindle	
279	Thank you for helping us by getting rid of those nasty Troglodytes!	Thank you for helping us by getting rid of those nasty Troglodytes!		Spark Burnkindle	
280	"Good day, my lords."	"Good day, my lords."		Seth Drakkson	
281	"Good work on those griffins, my lords.  It is always a pleasure to see you."	"Good work on those griffins, my lords.  It is always a pleasure to see you."		Seth Drakkson	
282	I have nothing to say to you.  Go away.	I have nothing to say to you.  Go away.		Seth Drakkson	
283	Your lack of punctuality has cost yourselves and your town grievously.  I think you may find your bank account somewhat… pinched.  Consider this an important lesson learned.  Good day.	Your lack of punctuality has cost yourselves and your town grievously.  I think you may find your bank account somewhat… pinched.  Consider this an important lesson learned.  Good day.		Niles Stantley	
284	Growf!	Growf!		Baby Dragon	
285	"Greetings, my lords.  May I have a moment of your time?"	"Good to see you again, my lords."		Darron Temper	
286	"Well met, lords.  Do you have a moment to share?"	"A pleasure to see you again, lords."		Gary Zimm	
287	"Thanks for getting me out of that cage.  I thought I had managed to escape when I was able to steal a key from the guard, but it didn't open my cage!  Whatever it's used for, I'm sure you'll find it more useful than I will. 

I need to get back to my kingdom right away; who knows what sort of horrible things have happened while I've been away.  Excuse me for my abruptness, but I want to breathe fresh air again.  You've done both Erathia and Enroth a great service, and I'm in your debt."	"How wonderful to see you again.  Thanks for helping me escape the Kreegan.  If you should find yourselves in Enroth, come by and visit Castle Ironfist."		Roland	
288	May I have a moment of your time?	May I have a moment of your time?		Statuette First	
289	Excellent work; my associates are quite pleased.	Excellent work; my associates are quite pleased.		Statuette Finished	
290	"Greetings, lords.  Welcome to my humble home."	"Greetings again, lords.  May your stay here be a pleasant one."		Painting First	
291	Thank you for your assistance in completing my collection.  You have my gratitude forever!	Thank you for your assistance in completing my collection.  You have my gratitude forever!		Painting Finished	
292	Good day!  Would you like to hear about the ArcoMage Championship?	Good day!  Would you like to hear about the ArcoMage Championship?		Arcomage First	
293	Welcome ArcoMage Champions!	Welcome ArcoMage Champions!		Arcomage Finished	
294	Greetings!  Are you here to study the arts of Sorcerey?	Greetings!  Are you here to study the arts of Sorcerey?	Hint NPC In Bracada		
295	Welcome to Celeste!  There are many great sites to see here!	Welcome to Celeste!  There are many great sites to see here!	Hint NPC In Celeste		
296	Yer in the Pit now!  Wish you were dead yet?	Yer in the Pit now!  Wish you were dead yet?	Hint NPC In The Pit		
297	Nighon is the place to learn the ways of magic.  Have you visited all who could teach you?	Nighon is the place to learn the ways of magic.  Have you visited all who could teach you?	Hint NPC In Nighon		
298	The Barrow Downs is not a place to linger!  I may return to Stone City if it gets much worse here!	The Barrow Downs is not a place to linger!  I may return to Stone City if it gets much worse here!	Hint NPC in Barrow Downs		
299	Tatalia has the most drastic climes in Erathia.  From the snow topped mountains to the swamps to the south.	Tatalia has the most drastic climes in Erathia.  From the snow topped mountains to the swamps to the south.	Hint NPC in Tatalia		
300	Greetings!  Hope the day finds you well!	Greetings!  Hope the day finds you well!	Hint NPC in Avlee		
301	Visitors to Stone City.  Its been a while since we had travelers such as yourselves!  Welcome!	Visitors to Stone City.  Its been a while since we had travelers such as yourselves!  Welcome!	Hint NPC in Stone City		
302	You won Lord Markham's contest?  Good luck…last people who tried to clean this place up went into Castle Harmondale and never came out.	You won Lord Markham's contest?  Good luck…last people who tried to clean this place up went into Castle Harmondale and never came out.	Hint NPC in Harmondale		
303	Welcome to Pierpont.  Be sure not to travel into the forest to the northeast.  Several people have disappeared in that region!	Welcome to Pierpont!  Be sure not to travel into the forest to the northeast.  Several people have disappeared in that region!	Hint NPC in Tularean Forest (4)		
304	Erathia is sure a better place now that Catherine is ruling from Castle Gryphonheart.  Don’t you think?	Erathia is sure a better place now that Catherine is ruling from Castle Gryphonheart.  Don’t you think?	Hint NPC in Erathia (3)		
305	Deyja is the place to learn the ways of magic.  Have you visited all who could teach you?	Deyja is the place to learn the ways of magic.  Have you visited all who could teach you?	Hint NPC in Deyja (5)		
306	"Greetings!  My name is Qillain, and I can make weapons from ore.  If you find ore, just bring me the chunk, and I'll make a weapon of equivalent quality to the ore used.  I will use the best ore first, and I take from only one person at a time."	"Greetings!  My name is Qillain, and I can make weapons from ore.  If you find ore, just bring me the chunk, and I'll make a weapon of equivalent quality to the ore used.  I will use the best ore first, and I take from only one person at a time."	Ore for weapon		
307	"Welcome!  My name is Robert, and I can make armor from ore.  If you find ore, just bring me the chunk, and I'll make a armor of equivalent quality to the ore used.  I will use the best ore first, and I take from only one person at a time."	"Welcome!  My name is Robert, and I can make armor from ore.  If you find ore, just bring me the chunk, and I'll make a armor of equivalent quality to the ore used.  I will use the best ore first, and I take from only one person at a time."	Ore for armor		
308	"Greetings!  My name is Cloud,  and I can make items from ore-- you know, rings, cloaks, boots, and the like.  If you find ore, just bring me the chunk, and I'll make an item of equivalent quality to the ore used.  I will use the best ore first, and I take from only one person at a time."	"Greetings!  My name is Cloud,  and I can make items from ore-- you know, rings, cloaks, boots, and the like.  If you find ore, just bring me the chunk, and I'll make an item of equivalent quality to the ore used.  I will use the best ore first, and I take from only one person at a time."	Ore for misc		
309	"Hold there!  You seemed to have forgotten the Necromancer Tax.  This tax (1000 gold) ensures that the roads stay clear of zombies and costs, and it would be in your best interest to pay."	"Hold there!  You seemed to have forgotten the Necromancer Tax.  This tax (1000 gold) ensures that the roads stay clear of zombies and costs, and it would be in your best interest to pay."	Ambush		
310	Need to make a little extra money?  I buy crates of Tularean Wood and I sell crates of Arrowheads at the best prices around.  	Do you have any Tularean Wood?  I buy crates of Tularean Wood and I sell crates of Arrowheads at the best prices around.  	Trading Triangle 1 1		
311	Perhaps we can do some business together? I buy crates of Arrowheads and I sell crates of Griffin Feathers at the best prices around.  	Do you have any Arrowheads? I buy crates of Arrowheads and I sell crates of Griffin Feathers at the best prices around.  	Trading Triangle 1 2		
312	Looking to make some extra coin?  I buy crates of Griffin Feathers and I sell crates of Tularean Wood at the best prices around.  	Do you have any Griffin Feathers?  I buy crates of Griffin Feathers and I sell crates of Tularean Wood at the best prices around.  	Trading Triangle 1 3		
313	Greetings!  I buy crates of Enrothian Wine and I sell crates of Sand at the best prices around.  Are you interested in making a little money?	Did you bring any bottles of Enrothian Wine?  I buy crates of Enrothian Wine and I sell crates of Sand at the best prices around.  	Trading Triangle 2 1		
314	Care to trade for some extra gold?  I buy crates of Sand and I sell crates of Glass Bottles at the best prices around.  	Greetings!  I buy crates of Sand and I sell crates of Glass Bottles at the best prices around. 	Trading Triangle 2 2		
315	Greetings!  I buy crates of Glass Bottles and I sell crates of Enrothian Wine at the best prices around.  Are you interested in making a little money?	Do you have any Glass Bottles?  I buy crates of Glass Bottles and I sell crates of Enrothian Wine at the best prices around.  	Trading Triangle 2 3		
316	"::You receive a telepathic message:: My…Lords.  My name is Archibald Ironfist.  You've probably heard of me--it is I who, up until recently, was the ruler of the Pit.  With my retirement, I find myself no longer concerned with the affairs of state.  I know that we were adversaries, but I am forced to ask for your help.  In return, I think I can help you.

I see that you're on your way to do battle with the devils, and I want to make sure it goes well.  With the aid of equipment I have found in my new laboratory, I have discovered that my brother Roland, husband to Queen Catherine of Erathia, remains imprisoned by the devils in their foul, ah, dwelling.

Please rescue him!  Not even I can bear to think of my brother in those conditions!  To help you along, I offer this weapon.  It was...found by my loyal servant sergeant Piridak, amongst my advisor's personal belongings.  I hope it helps."	"::You receive a telepathic message:: My…Lords.  My name is Archibald Ironfist.  You've probably heard of me--it is I who, up until recently, was the ruler of the Pit.  With my retirement, I find myself no longer concerned with the affairs of state.  I know that we were adversaries, but I am forced to ask for your help.  In return, I think I can help you.

I see that you're on your way to do battle with the devils, and I want to make sure it goes well.  With the aid of equipment I have found in my new laboratory, I have discovered that my brother Roland, husband to Queen Catherine of Erathia, remains imprisoned by the devils in their foul, ah, dwelling.

Please rescue him!  Not even I can bear to think of my brother in those conditions!  To help you along, I offer this weapon.  It was...found by my loyal servant sergeant Piridak, amongst my advisor's personal belongings.  I hope it helps."	"Archibald contacts party, and party is good (Roland quest)"		
317	"::You receive a telepathic message:: My friends.  I know you are working with my old advisors, but I must ask for your help one more time.

With the aid of equipment I have found in my new laboratory, I have discovered that my brother Roland, husband to Queen Catherine of Erathia, remains imprisoned by the devils in their foul, ah, dwelling.  I overheard that you're on your way to do battle with them (this equipment really is wonderful), and I want to make sure it goes well.  My brother has stolen the key to their leader's chambers, and has hidden it in the beastly cage they're keeping him in.  

Please rescue him!  Not even I can bear to think of my brother in those conditions!  To help you along, I offer this weapon.  It was...found by my loyal servant sergeant Piridak, amongst my advisor's personal belongings.  I hope it helps."	"::You receive a telepathic message:: My friends.  I know you are working with my old advisors, but I must ask for your help one more time.

With the aid of equipment I have found in my new laboratory, I have discovered that my brother Roland, husband to Queen Catherine of Erathia, remains imprisoned by the devils in their foul, ah, dwelling.  I overheard that you're on your way to do battle with them (this equipment really is wonderful), and I want to make sure it goes well.  My brother has stolen the key to their leader's chambers, and has hidden it in the beastly cage they're keeping him in.  

Please rescue him!  Not even I can bear to think of my brother in those conditions!  To help you along, I offer this weapon.  It was...found by my loyal servant sergeant Piridak, amongst my advisor's personal belongings.  I hope it helps."	"Archibald contacts party, and party is evil (Roland quest)"		
318	"Halt!  Visitors aren't permitted in this section of Stone City.  If you are looking for King Hothfarr's throne room, it is to the east of here."	"Halt!  You have already been warned once!  Visitors aren't permitted in this section of Stone City.  If you are looking for King Hothfarr's throne room, it is to the east of here."	Guard Stone City		
319	"Good day, my lords.  How do you fare?"	"Good day, my lords.  How do you fare?"	Goblin spy		
320	"Ah, the contestants!  I hope you haven't come to try to give Harmondale back to me!  If you look at the contract you signed, it explicitly states that our deal is irrevocable on page nine, subparagraph iii, section c.  The deal really is cut and dried.  Buy the ticket--take the ride! ::Yawns:: Now, is there anything else you wished to speak about?  "	"Hmmph.  You don't actually expect me to act as though you really were a noble, do you?  Once a peasant, always a peasant, that's what my mother used to say.  Really, could you use the servant's entrance next time you stop by?  It really is embarrassing to have you dusty, mud spattered peasants coming in through the front door.  What will the neighbors think?"			
321	MMExt Placeholder	MMExt Placeholder			
322	MMExt Placeholder	MMExt Placeholder			
323	Hey! Hey, you! Halt, I must speak with you for a spell. It’s a matter of an utmost importance. Though even ‘utmost’ can’t convey just how important the matter is. 
*The woman glances you over with a firm frown forming on her brow* 
How are you doing, by the way? Any sudden pains? Feeling strangely empty inside? Nothing? Well, that’s a relief, I have to say. Though I was pretty sure I had the hang of it by now. Third time’s the charm, aye?	Hey! Halt, I must speak with you for a spell. It’s a matter of an utmost importance.	Cross continent Q. First meet.	Verdant	
324	Oh my, I'm so relieved to see you here! Something possibly terrible is afoot! Yes, I know, you've saved the world three times, but that means there's nobody else who can match you in skill and cunning, and boy, do we need skill and cunning! Possibly. Almost for certain, really.	Hey, how's the expedition going? 	Cross continent Q. Third continent ending.	Verdant	
325	Pew pew pew! It looked easier than dealing with pesky goblins. But am I glad the Devil Queen is down! *Verdant shivers*. Disgusting thing. How did it smell? I don’t get full sensory experiences when using the spectator spells. 
It’s nice we get to see the slow rebuilding of the village of Sweet Water now. To have a place with such a name evoke fear in the people that hear it, it doesn’t sit well with me. 
And since we’re talking about things that don’t sit well with me, same can be said about you being knighted by a little boy you’ve had to fetch from the circus. I will never understand politics. Ever. In my eyes – you’re the world’s true royalty, and my chronicle will be sure to reflect that! Objectively, of course.
Oh, and this little thing is for you as well. So you don’t think I’m being lazy over here letting you do all the work.	Hey, how's the expedition going? 	MM6 Ending	Verdant	
326	You’ve done it! I am… amazed. *Verdant is visibly trying to keep her composure, though it’s fair to assume she’d try at least poke your face to get a touch of heroism.* It can’t have been easy, I shudder at the mere thought of diving deep underwater with suits of this era… That sounds absolutely insane.
Really? Not that terrifying? Guess that’s why you’re the heroes and I’m the hero-remover. Hehe.
The consortium doesn’t know yet about the things that have transpired here. Thank goodness they’re usually pretty confused about what’s going on and where. But with your abilities, soon there will be nothing to know about. Or at least nothing to know about in fury. Thank you, on my behalf, and on the behalf of the people of Antagrich. 
What did Katherine do in the meanwhile, huh? Aside of bossing you around and stirring trouble with that Elven King. You should be the one patting her on shoulder and telling her good job on the paperwork.
Here, I’ve made something for you. I hope you find it useful.	Hey, how's the expedition going? 	MM7 Ending	Verdant	
327	Hey! Congratulations! That was a true show of power. Though I have to say, I felt a little sad watching Escaton die. There was something affable about the fella, something tragic to his story, don’t you think? 
But I am glad to see our Elemental Lord friends back in their happy little dimensions. They’re kind of like your friendly neighborhood wild animals, breaks my heart to see them suffer. Don’t scowl at me, I absolutely love animals so it’s definitely a compliment!
Only shame the crystal is gone. I was meaning to chip some off it for jewelry purposes, but I didn’t get around to it in time. Oh well, maybe in the next iteration, right?
I’ve made a little something for you. Infused with love and adoration!	Hey, how's the expedition going? 	MM8 Ending	Verdant	
328	Hey, how's the expedition going? 	Hey, how's the expedition going? 	Standard greet	Verdant	
329	Hey! Got my letter? I must speak with you. It’s a matter of an utmost importance. Though even ‘utmost’ can’t convey just how important the matter is. 
*The woman glances you over with a firm frown forming on her brow* 
How are you doing, by the way? Any sudden pains? Feeling strangely empty inside? Nothing? Well, that’s a relief, I have to say. Though I was pretty sure I had the hang of it by now. Third time’s the charm, aye?	Hey, how's the expedition going? 	Cross continent Q. First meet with letter.	Verdant
330	Hey, you are here. Well, you need this letter to jump on path of previous heroes... You're a bunch of happy kids saved by a nice warlock fellow, spent your lives training, now all grown up and ready to roll. No need for a heavy roleplay, just don't be jerks. Go around, slap some goblins, squash a spider or two, poke a devil. Umm... I mean, an apprentice wizard, yes. No devils anywhere, forget the devils. I don't think I should be telling you things about your future. Well, their future. But also your future now. You know what I mean.	Hey, how's the expedition going? 	Enroth jump in.	Verdant	
331	*Suddenly Verdant appears from behind* Boo! You've passed time! Town, people around, can you believe they are older than you or have not even born at the point of "your real time", how it feels? Don't tell me, I have something for you - Connector Gem.	Hey, how's the expedition going? 	Give Connector stone	Verdant
332	(The boy runs up to you)

Hey! My lords! Great competition going to happen very soon!

(Putting paper in your hands, he runs away)		Placeholder	Boy messenger