News # 	Text	Notes / Topic	
0	If you see this text tell James.	Ooops text	
1	If the pirates make it through our warriors we are certainly doomed!  	Peasants on main island of Dagger Wound before the pirate outpost is defeated	
2	Our thanks for defeating the pirates!  Now if you could only do something about the mountain of fire!	Peasants on main island of Dagger Wound after the pirate outpost is defeated (Questbit 6)	
3	There is no way back to the village of Blood Drop!  I have no way of knowing if my family lives or not!	Peasants on smaller islands before teleporters are fixed	
4	You came through the Portals of Stone?  They are working?  We can return to our families!	Peasants on smaller islands after teleporters are fixed (questbit 2)	
5	"Argh!  Either get in the fight, or get out of our way!"	Pirates on Dagger Wound Island	
6	"Someone should clear out the caves that the dire wolves use for their lair.  If we had one less thing to worry about, things might get a little better!"	Wolves	
7	"I have heard rumors that the end of the world is near.  One look at that crystal in the center of town, and I am tempted to believe them!"	Peasants in Ravenshore city	
8	There was a pack of those vile wererats behind my house again last night.  Someone should do something about the vile little creatures. Between those vermin and the dire wolves it amazing that our children are safe!	Wererats	
9	Please don't hurt us!  Arion Hunter says we are friends now!	Were-rats in Smugglers Cove after Fellmoon's letter has been delivered (Questbit 4).  Rats in Dungeo	
10	We will be forever in your debt!  You have saved Ravenshore and all of Jadame!	All Peasants after end game	
11	Would you like to fire the cannons in defense of Dagger Wound Island?	Lizardman Lookouts/cannons	
12	Help us!  If we do not push the pirates off the island all will be lost!	Lizardmen Warriors	
13	With the Pirate Outpost defeated our homes are once again safe!  Thank you!	Lzardmen Warriors after Questbit 6	
14	"Ogres have become more of a problem in our daily lives.  If someone were to deal with the Ogres in their fortress, maybe things would get better!"	Ogres	
15	Warrior Wasps have built a large nest southeast of here.  They could become a threat to the city if the nest grows too large.	Wasps	
16	News from the different regions of Jadame has been very slow in getting to Alvar.  I wonder if the merchants know what is going on in the world?	News	
17	The sea of fire has destroyed our village!  Who knows how long we can still live here.	Peasants in Ironsand/Rust	
18	"With the destruction of the village, all we need now is a Cyclops raiding party to attack us!  Then our fate would be sealed and we would certainly perish!"	Peasants in Ironsand/Rust	
19	A strange cave has opened north of the village.  It appeared shortly after the sea of fire devastated the village.  Strange creatures have been seen entering and leaving this cave.  I wonder what is inside it?	Peasants in Ironsand/Rust	
20	Under Sir Charles Quixote's guidance we will rid this region of the threat of Dragons once and for all!	Dragon Hunters in Fort	
21	"Nagas have become more and more of a problem while we are hunting.  It's not bad enough that we have to stay watchful for Dragons attacking us from the sky, now we have to worry about Nagas ranging out from their vault."	Dragon Hunters in Fort	
22	Sir Charles Quixote sent us out to train under the guidance of Jeric Whistlebone.  Some day I hope to be as great a knight as he!	Dragon Hunters at Training Camp	
23	There have been strange flashes of light from the north for many nights now.  Zanthora the Mad Necromancer is most certainly brewing up trouble for someone.  I certainly hope it is not for us of the Guild of Necromancers!	Peasants in Shadowspire	
24	"There was another vampire attack last night.  I wish we didn’t have to put up with them!  But the Guild of Necromancers has their alliance with the Nosferatu, and we cannot retaliate.  "	Peasants in Shadowspire	
25	There has not been a battle with the Temple of the Sun in years.  I hope they are not planning another assault upon the Guild.  It took years for us to recover from the last battle!	Peasants in Shadowspire	
26	Glory to all who bathe in the cleansing light of the Sun! Do you walk in the path of its light?	Peasants in Murmurwoods	
27	"There was a tremendous wind storm that devastated most of the forest to the north of here!  It has driven basilisks, will o' wisps and unicorns closer to the temple!  "	Peasants in Murmurwoods	
28	"Be gone!  We have no use for you here, unless we uses you to feed the wyverns!"	Ogres in Ravage Roaming by Zog's fort	
29	We have not had any travelers from Balzathar Lair since the canyon filled with water.  I wonder if any of them survived the flood!	Ogres in Ravage Roaming by boat dock	
30	Better watch out!  The Dread Pirate Stanley doesn't like strangers snooping around our island!	Peasant Pirates of Regna	
31	"If we can conquer Dagger Wound Island, then nothing will stop us from raiding Ravenshore and even the city of Alvar itself!"	Peasant Pirates of Regna	
32	I saw torches last night at the old ruined fort across the bay last night.   I wonder what people were doing out there?	Peasant Pirates of Regna	
33	Thanks for helping us empty the lair!  	Peasant Minotaurs in Balzathar Lair	
34	"Now that the water is gone, we can begin putting our lives in order.  But what if the flood comes back?  Are we still safe?"	Water	
35	"Our herd leader, Masul, will certainly wish to speak with you if you haven't already found him.  Seek him out and he may reward you for helping us."	Masul	
36	Group 36		
37	Group 37	 	
38	Nothing to see here… move along.	 	
39	"Walk in the Light, friends."	Clerics(area 7)	
40	"Welcome to our holy retreat. If you have business with our order, seek out the head priest, Oskar Tyre. His office is in the temple."	Clerics(area 7)	
41	"What are you bothering me for? Talk to the Guildmaster, Sandro. He deals with guests. Not me!"	Nercros in guild	
42	"Out of my way, cretin! You interrupt my thoughts, and I'm thinking about important matters!"	Necros in guild	
43	I hope that this war against the Dragons never ends!  Charles Quixote pays mercenaries like myself very well for our services.	Rogues inside Dragon Hunter's Fort	
44	"Our king, Deftclaw, has given you his protection, but watch your step. Cause any trouble, and I will make a snack out of you."	dragons when allied	
45	"Our king, Deftclaw, has given you his protection, but watch your step. Cause any trouble, and I will make a snack out of you."	dragons when allied	
46	Group 46		
47	Group 47		
48	Group 48		
49	Group 49		
50		Used for the non-talkative friendly monsters	
51		Default change me text	
52	Good luck in the contest!	Peasant	
53	I wish Brent knew how to make a red potion.	Adventurer	
54	You'd better watch out.	Ambusher	
55	Don't cause any trouble.	Guard	
56	Congratulations!	"Peasant message 2, Emerald Island"	
57	Thanks for trading with us!	"Adventurer message 2, Emerald Island"	
58	Group 7		
59	Group 8		
60	Group 9		
61	So you are the new Lords of Harmondale?  How may I serve you?	Southern Village Group in Harmondale	
62	So you are the new Lords of Harmondale?  How may I serve you?	Lords	
63	Come to study with us under the Masters?	Tent camp in Erathia	
64	Welcome to the capitol of Steadwick! 'Ware the griffins!	Steadwick	
65	"You are welcome in Pierpont, the Elven capitol."	Elven capitol	
66	Greetings!  Head up the stairs to Pierpont and enjoy!	Pierpont	
67	Beware the Walking Dead in the region!	Walking dead	
68	Yer welcome here I think…then again…	Deyja	
69	Come to learn from the best Wizards in Erathia?	Stable and Tele dwellers in Bracada	
70	Greetings.  Lots of golems around these days!	Eastern village and boat dwellers in Bracada	
71	Study with the best and visit all the buildings here!	Ridge walkers in Bracada	
72	Tranquility and rest await you here in Celeste.	Celeste	
73	Welcome!  Be sure you don’t have a "falling out" while you here!	Welcome	
74	Welcome to the Pit!  Who says being dead is bad?	Peasents in first area of the pit	
75	The Pit is the only place I know of that lets us live in peace!	Peasents in the second area of the pit	
76	"Greetings! Necromancy is evil?  It’s a relative, don’t you think?"	Peasents in the third area of the pit	
77	Welcome to Mulder!  Enjoy your time with us.	Peasents in main town of nighon	
78	Have you journeyed far?  	Peasents in western town of Nighon	
79	Hello!  Did you come through the tunnels from Stone City?	Peasents in Eastern village of Nighon	
80	Hello there?  Checked your purse lately? Let me check it for you…	Peasents in the Mercenary guild village	
81	"Some Wacko around here has the boat schedule, I'm sure!"	Peasents in the wharf town	
82	"As a citizen of the city of Tidewater, I welcome you."	Peasents in the village area	
83	"Greetings, heard any word of Regnan Pirates?"	Peasents in the Dock area	
84	I heard there was a gate built to the Ancients!  I wonder what they look like.	Peasents good endgame	
85	I've heard rumors of goblins and undead armed with ancient weapons threatening to conquer Erathia!  How dreadful!	Peasents evil endgame	
86	Congratulations on completing the gate!  Erathia is in your debt!	Peasants in 6/7 endgame	
87	Congratulations on completing the forge!  Victory will surely be ours!	Peasants in 5/8 endgame	
88	Hello!		
89	Hello!		
90	Hello!		
91	Hello!		
92	Hello!		
93	Hello!		
94	Hello!		
95	Hello!		
96	Hello!		
97	Hello!		
98	Hello!		
99	Hello!		
100	Hello!		
101	Hello!		
102	"I've heard that the abandoned keep on the hill is now home to a pack of goblins.  The keep was built to keep the goblins away, so how could this possibly happen?"	Goblinwatch	
103	A day's travel west of here is a new Temple dedicated to Baa.  I've heard that bad things happen to rich people that travel near there.	Baa Temple	
104	"The passes through the hills to the west are filled with bandits, travelling on foot through there can be dangerous."	Bandits	
105	Ocean travel around here can be dangerous because of the sea serpents and water elementals that roam the oceans.	Sea Travel	
106	The High Council in Free Haven should really consult the Oracle to find out why the Ironfists have lost the Mandate of Heaven.	Oracle	
107	Prince Nicolai isn't even in charge anymore– Regent Humphrey makes all of the decisions.  It's not fair to blame Nicolai for all the problems.	Prince Nicolai	
108	"The two solstices are days of considerable magical importance.  The summer solstice is on June 21st, and the winter solstice is on December 21st."	Solstices	
109	"The stables at Castle Ironfist can take you to the Arena, an ancient place where warriors can test their prowess."	Arena	
110	"Goblins are weak creatures, but they tend to attack in large numbers."	Goblins	
111	"Though their physical attacks are weak, these mages can cast various elemental attack spells."	Apprentice Mages	
112	"A powerful artifact, Mordred is a dagger that possesses the ability to steal the health of its victim and transfer that vitality to its wielder."	Mordred	
113	Albert Newton in Mist handles the promotion of Sorcerers to Wizards.	Wizards	
114	"The abandoned temple northwest of town used to be occupied by the Temple of Baa, but they moved out in a hurry one day last year.  Now there's nothing but snakes, bats, and huge spiders."	Abandoned Temple	
115	"When the Temple of Baa moved out of that old temple outside of town, all of the little problems we've been having just…went away.  I tell you, there's something unwholesome about those people.  I'm glad they're gone."	Temple of Baa	
116	"A wizard friend of mine told me the Temple of Baa was laying curses on our town from the abandoned temple just outside town.  One day they tried to lay the Curse of Endless Vermin on us, only they did something wrong and it backfired, infesting their own temple instead.  They moved righty-o quick once that happened."	Curses	
117	"I heard the Temple of Baa abandoned that old temple so quickly they didn't have time to take all their stuff.  It should all still be down there, if you're brave enough to go look for it.  There's a lot of nasty monsters in the way, though, so be careful if you go."	Treasure	
118	"It's been quite a while since New Sorpigal was raided by goblins, but with goblins living in the very place meant to protect us from them, it can't be too long before we're attacked again, can it? "	Goblinwatch	
119	An evil guild of mages has been searching the southeast end of our peninsula for signs of the fabled Fountain of Magic.  They attack anyone who comes near to scare off potential rivals.  Be very careful if you travel in that direction!	Magicians	
120	The three fountains we have here in town are said to draw their water from a spring touched by the gods.  Each one is magical and beneficial to drink from.	Town Fountains	
121	"A raiding party of goblins has staked out the west bridge, hoping to rob and kill travelers.  They aren't very subtle– you can see them from a mile away– but they ARE dangerous.  Watch your step!"	Goblin Raiders	
122	Our town was founded centuries ago as the last major town in Enroth.  We have historically been a point from which colony ships left for the rest of the world.	New Sorpigal	
123	"The fruit on the trees in the orchards of our fair town is quite tasty, and free for all to take.  You should try it sometime!"	Fruit Trees	
124	"Beware of travelling to the islands just off our north shore.  The waters sometime have dangerous monsters, and the islands are none too hospitable, either.  "	Islands	
125	"It's been decades since we were last attacked by pirates from the islands of Regna, and I guess it's about time for us to be attacked again, what with the king missing and all."	Regnan Pirates	
126	"Buccaneers' Lair in New Sorpigal and Mist can teach you dagger, merchant, identify, perception, and disarm trap."	Buccaneers' Lair	
127	"You can learn dagger, merchant, identify, perception, and disarm trap at protection services in Silver Cove and White Cap."	Protection Services	
128	"Blackshire and Free Haven are homes to the Smugglers' Guild, where you can learn dagger, merchant, identify, perception, and disarm trap."	Smugglers' Guild	
129	"Sword, axe, spear, staff, and leather are all taught in Blades' End in both White Cap and New Sorpigal."	Blades' End	
130	"Duelists' Edge in Mist teaches mace, bow, chain, shield, and body building."	Duelists' Edge	
131	"Berserker's Fury in Castle Ironfist can teach you bow, shield, chain, plate, and repair item."	Berserker's Fury	
132	"The Fraternal Order of Silver has recently built a keep just south of Mist.  They used to be such nice people, but now they're so intent on killing evil they destroy anything that isn't perfect, and that's just about everything."	Silver Helms	
133	I love living down here!  Lord Newton never remembers to raise taxes.	Taxes	
134	The islands of Bootleg Bay are home to a few cannibal tribes.  People that visit those islands don't return. 	Bootleg Bay	
135	"The Fountain of Magic is supposed to be south of Bootleg Bay, but not many people have ever found it."	Fountain of Magic	
136	"In the islands south of Mist is the forge of Gharik, one of Archibald's fellow mages.  The place is crawling with elementals– no one ever goes there now."	Gharik's Forge	
137	"On an island north of Mist is Castle Alamos, one of the centers of magical study in Enroth.  All sorts of summoning and alchemy occurs in that castle– it's a dangerous place for the casual visitor."	Castle Alamos	
138	A couple of old temples are said to still stand in the jungle islands of Bootleg Bay.  I wonder if anyone still worships in them?	Temples	
139	"Water elementals prowl the waters near Mist.  As if their powerful physical attacks aren't enough, they can also fire Ice Bolts from a distance."	Water Elementals	
140	"This axe is a hero's dream.  It's enchanted to slay dragons and devils, and does so quite well.  Unfortunately, owners of the axe tend to find such creatures more often then they'd like to."	Conan	
141	"Not many people make it to wizard, and even fewer are promoted to arch mages.  Albert Newton must ask the impossible of those looking to be promoted."	Arch Mages	
142	"Mist was originally intended to be a customs and trading port for dealings with the Eastern islands and countries.  Piracy has severely cut into that trade, so we're not as prosperous as we should be."	Mist	
143	"About 200 miles to the east of us lie the Regnan Islands.  They are inhabited with pirates ruled by an 'emperor' who 'taxes' passing ships that pass near their territory.  The Regnans produce almost nothing on their own, with the exception of weapons and mercenaries."	Regna	
144	I hear you can make a potion of supreme protection by mixing an orange potion with a green potion.	Recipe	
145	"Melody Silver was recently imprisoned by the Silver Helms in their new outpost south of Mist.  They've been acting awfully strange lately, and it's terrible that they seized such a nice young woman.  Someone's got to do something about those people!"	Melody Silver	
146	"The Silver Helms, founded by John Silver, were originally organized to fight brigands and murderers, but they've been harassing citizens for even the most petty crimes recently. "	Vigilantes	
147	"Most of the international trade on our island is with the Kingdom of Erathia, homeland of our good Queen Catherine.  Erathia is the source of most of our precious metals and stone."	Trade	
148	"Years of practicing high sorcery can erode the memory of the sorcerer severely, and there is no cure for it.  Even if there was, it's unlikely the victim would remember to use it! "	Memory	
149	"Albert Newton was promoted to his current position because of his strong support for Roland during the Succession War, even though Archibald offered him much sorcerous knowledge.  Lord Newton must surely be a good man to have refused to support the wicked Archibald, even though it looked like Archibald was going to win."	Succession War	
150	"Although Lord Newton seems weak and forgetful these days, it's good to remember that he was once one of the greatest sorcerers in the land, perhaps the greatest sorcerer ever!  They say that Lord Newton has forgotten more sorcerous knowledge than Archibald ever knew, excepting the school of dark magic."	Lord of Mist	
151	"Buccaneers' Lair in New Sorpigal and Mist can teach you dagger, merchant, identify, perception, and disarm trap."	Buccaneers' Lair	
152	"You can learn dagger, merchant, identify, perception, and disarm trap at Protection Services in Silver Cove and White Cap."	Protection Services	
153	"Blackshire and Free Haven are homes to the Smugglers' Guild, where you can learn dagger, merchant, identify, perception, and disarm trap."	Smugglers' Guild	
154	"Sword, axe, spear, staff, and leather are all taught in Blades' End in both White Cap and New Sorpigal."	Blades' End	
155	"Duelists' Edge in Free Haven teaches mace, bow, chain, shield, and repair item."	Duelists' Edge	
156	"Berserker's Fury in Silver Cove can teach you sword, bow, shield, plate, and body building."	Berserker's Fury	
157	"If you're skilled enough, Calvin Black can teach you ways to improve your staff skill.  He lives in a house right near the Imp Slapper."	Calvin Black	
158	"When Gonzalo isn't spending time in the Imp Slapper, he teaches spear expertise."	Gonzalo Ramirez	
159	"If you're looking to gain expertise in leather armor, Arthur teaches right near the Buccaneers' Lair."	Arthur O'Leery	
160	Bernard teaches expert repair skill just south of the Duelists' Edge.	Bernard Jacobs	
161	The weird creatures that have been summoned around here make people forget that Alamos was the home of some of the best alchemists in the world.  Powerful items must be kept in that castle.	Alamos	
162	"One of the islands to the west has a strange circle of stones.  I think that's used for the Ceremony of the Sun, one of the requirements in Druid promotions."	Circle of Stone	
163	The waters around Castle Alamos teem with sea serpents that attack ships with their icy breath.	Sea Serpent	
164	"Percival is the ultimate ranged attack weapon.  With its rapid fire and dangerous explosive attack, it can wipe out large numbers of enemies at a safe distance."	Percival	
165	"These annoying creatures are immune to magic, but not immune to a good sword blow."	Agar's Pet	
166	"The old Dwarf King is in exile now, but I'll bet he wants his throne back pretty badly."	Rocklin	
167	Snergle hid the key to the innermost chambers of his caverns in the iron mines to the west.	Iron Mines	
168	"Wilbur Humphrey is so scared that something will happen to Nicolai, the Prince has not been allowed to leave the castle in months."	Nicolai	
169	"After Corlagon's defeat in the Succession Wars, he retired to his Estate in the Mire of the Damned to study sorcery.  Rumor has it that he became a lich hoping to survive until Archibald could return."	Corlagon	
170	"The Shadow Guild, an upstart Thieves' Guild, supposedly has a hideout near Castle Ironfist.  I'm sure Anthony Stone would love to see that hideout destroyed."	Shadow Guild	
171	I'm surprised that Nicolai hasn't asked the Oracle for advice; I doubt Regent Humphrey has all the answers.	Oracle	
172	There's still no news on when Catherine will be back from her trip to Erathia.	Catherine	
173	"King Roland's Yacht, the Queen Catherine, hasn't left port in years.  Is it even still seaworthy?"	Yacht	
174	"Lizardmen prowl around the swampy areas south of Castle Ironfist.  They use bows, but the most powerful are wizards that will cast Lightning Bolts when threatened."	Lizardmen	
175	"The Arena of Enroth can be reached through the stables in Ironfist.  You can fight almost any kind of monster there, if you have the taste for that sort of thing.  Lots of people would go every day, but the Arena is only open on Sundays."	Arena	
176	A useful shield that unerringly blocks missile attacks and makes its user more likely to land blows in battle.	Valeria	
177	"Wilbur Humphrey, in Roland's absence, handles the promotions of all paladins to crusaders."	Crusaders	
178	"Lord Corlagon was Archibald's greatest lieutenant during the Succession War, and after his side lost, he retired to his mansion in the swamps somewhere.  It is said that he performed the Ritual of the Endless Night and became a lich a couple of years ago."	Lord Corlagon	
179	"Wilbur Humphrey is Foremost Paladin of the land.  Though many say he is too naïve and unfit to rule while King Roland is gone, people say he is utterly fearless and honest.  I personally think we couldn't possibly find a better man for the job!"	Wilbur Humphrey	
180	The fabulous Circus of the Sun usually sets up a few day's travel down the trade road leading north from Castle Ironfist.  They are always there in December of each year.	Circus of the Sun	
181	There are highwaymen plying the trade road brazenly near the castle.  The Regent must be mightily distracted to permit these ruffians to rob innocent travelers right beneath his nose!	Highwaymen	
182	"The Seer lives in a hut on a mountain near the source of the Silver River that runs from the Steel Mountains, past Castle Ironfist, and into the ocean.  It is said that he helps those who are lost."	The Seer	
183	"Rocklin, former King of the Dwarves, has been deposed by a dwarf named Snergle.  Snergle renamed the mines and caverns formerly operated by Rocklin to, predictably, Snergle's Mine and Snergle's Caverns.  You can find both of those places west of the mountains near Castle Ironfist called the Steel Mountains."	Dwarves	
184	"The swamps of Enroth are home to all manner of unwholesome monsters, many of them undead.  Carry fire and tread lightly if you should ever have to venture there!"	The Swamp	
185	"The road between Castle Ironfist and New Sorpigal has become quite unsafe.  Ordinarily, we only have one group of bandits preying upon travelers…but these days we have not one, not two, but THREE groups of bandits!  First, there is that hideous Temple of Baa, then we have the Dragoon hideout near the south shore somewhere, and finally we have an unauthorized Thieves' Guild open for business near the Castle!  "	Dragoons	
186	Newt teaches expert leather skill south of Castle Ironfist.	Newt Headrow	
187	You can learn expert chain skill from Rich just south of Castle Ironfist.	Rich Hamburg	
188	A little south of Castle Ironfist are four small houses.  Benito teaches expert plate skill in the northmost one.	Benito Tellman	
189	Edgar will teach sufficiently skilled shield users expert techniques.	Edgar Carpenter	
190	Aaron teaches expert sword wielding right next to the weapon shop in Castle Ironfist.	Aaron Strongmun	
191	Expert axe is taught by Stephan in the training grounds.	Stephan Biggs	
192	Helen lives with her friend Tracy right between the King's Crown and the Eagle's Eye.	Helen Teal	
193	Tyler teaches expert disarm right across the street from the training grounds in Castle Ironfist.	Tyler Tailor	
194	Leon teaches expert identify right across the street from the training grounds in Castle Ironfist.	Leon Lazaru	
195	"Olaf lives in a small house behind Castle Ironfist, and teaches expert body building from there."	Olaf Berring	
196	Elton teaches expert learning in one of the towers of Castle Ironfist.	Elton Astrogate	
197	Walter teaches expert diplomacy in one of the towers of Castle Ironfist.	Walter Hargreaves	
198	Behind the King's Crown you can find Terrance Smith.  He'll teach skilled dagger users a few new tricks.	Terrance Smith	
199	I hear there's a reward out for the ones who can put down the Dragoon highwaymen plying the road near the south shore.  Some merchant's offering a LOT of money for the return of his stolen merchandise!	Merchants	
200	"A small order of monks has grown just south of Bootleg Bay, called the Order of the Fist."	Order of the Fist	
201	"The islands of Bootleg Bay hide a pile of pirate treasure.  That is, if you can get past the cannibals and actually find it…"	Pirate Treasure	
202	"The location of the Fountain of Magic is still a mystery.  For some reason, the people that find it never reveal its location."	Fountain of Magic	
203	The Church of the Sun used to have a temple on an island in Bootleg Bay.	Temple	
204	"A powerful crown, Arthur not only boosts all its wearer's physical characteristics, but also their spell points."	Arthur	
205	I've heard that you need to slay an elder dragon to be promoted from Crusader to Hero.  No wonder there are so few Heroes around!	Heroes	
206	"The temple of Tsantsa can be found on one of the large islands south of Silver Cove.  The people that live on that island like to sacrifice captives to their beastly god Tsantsa, and then shrink their heads in the pools of disgusting chemicals they keep in their temple.  The islanders are quite hostile, so be sure to kiss your loved ones goodbye if you have plans to visit the island."	Temple of Tsantsa	
207	"Long abandoned by the Church of the Sun, their temple still stands on a large island east of Free Haven.  A small order of confused monks, misapprehending the true nature of the temple, have somehow made peace with the islanders and moved into the temple– bringing a stolen holy artifact with them.  Now the old temple's insidious magic has affected their minds, making them believe they must defend the temple to the death.  The monks are very unfriendly these days, and attack all who trespass."	Temple of the Sun	
208	Preston teaches expert chain skill just east of the Goblin's Tooth.	Preston Harper	
209	Shoshi can teach you new perception tricks from his house just east of the Goblin's Tooth.	Shoshi Pertoniki	
210	"Winston used to be a member of that new clerical order down here, but he quit.  Apparently he left something behind because he's looking for someone to go back to the Temple of the Fist for him.  He's lives in one of the antechambers of the House of Healing now."	Winston Schezar	
211	Cedric Druthers' splinter group of druids perform ceremonies in a cave west of Silver Cove.	Celestial Order	
212	"The stronghold of the Fraternal Order of Silver is located near Silver Cove.  The Silver Helms seem more violent lately, I wonder why that is?"	Silver Helms	
213	The Warlord's Fortress is to the northwest of Silver Cove.  Only the strongest warriors are enlisted into his army.	The Warlord	
214	The Shadow Guild supposedly has a large guild right near Castle Stone.  I'm surprised Anthony Stone hasn’t discovered its location yet.	Shadow Guild	
215	Not many ships travel to Castle Alamos.  Most captains are afraid of the strange creatures that prowl around the northern seas.	Castle Alamos	
216	Guilds of Light can be found in Silver Cove and Blackshire and Guilds of Dark can be found in Winter Cap and Blackshire.	Light and Dark	
217	"Diamond Gargoyles are the toughest gargoyles around.  They're impossible to kill with physical attacks, so you should use magic to kill them."	Diamond Gargoyle	
218	"Druids can cast a variety of elemental spells when angered, and are often slightly shielded from magical attacks."	Druids	
219	These legendary boots enable their wearer to move faster and react quicker.	Lucius	
220	"To be promoted to Arch Druid, a Greater Druid needs to perform the Ceremony of the Moon in the Temple of the Moon near Free Haven."	Arch Druids	
221	"The fortress of the Warlord watches over the source of the Calimar river as it winds its way past Silver Cove and empties into Bootleg Bay.  Originally established to protect a town planned for that region, the fortress became a magnet for mercenaries and criminals after the town failed and all the settlers moved south to greener pastures."	Warlord's Fortress	
222	"The Monolith overlooks the Silver road that leads from Silver Cove to Free Haven.  It's been an object of fascination and occasional worship for ages.  A long time ago, some group of druids carved a home out of the giant rock, and it has been inhabited by various groups since then.  The druids who currently live there were experimenting with some kind of new magic, and I think something may have gone wrong.  They've been avoiding contact with the outside world for some time now, and refuse to allow visitors to enter the Monolith."	The Monolith	
223	"The town of Silver Cove got its start as a fishing and trading village a few hundred years ago.  With time, our little village grew up to be a full-fledged town.  We have ample room to expand the town, and the land around us is fertile and easy to farm.  We are just a little distant from the rest of the Kingdom, though."	Silver Cove	
224	"The Lady of Silver Cove often seems more interested in amassing her fortune than governing well, but I don't think it's so simple.  She often spends a lot of wealth on town improvements and security, so I guess she can't be all bad."	Loretta Fleise	
225	"The Silver Helm vigilantes have occupied a fortress just north of Silver Cove.  Accusing Lady Fleise of the sin of greed, the Silver Helms have begun to attack her caravans travelling between Silver Cove and Free Haven.  I'm sure she's none too happy about it..."	Vigilantes	
226	"Be careful of travelling the waters north and east of Silver Cove– they're inhabited by giant, man-eating sea serpents!"	Eel Infested Waters	
227	"The Spring Equinox is on March 20th, and the Autumn Equinox is on September 23rd.  It's said that these dates are important magical events."	Equinoxes	
228	"The White Rock Islands north of Silver Cove have long been abandoned by civilized humans, and are now home to the monsters and madmen.  Druids occasionally risk their lives and journey to those islands looking for the fabled Circle of Stones so they can perform the Ceremony of the Sun."	Circle of Stone	
229	"The Silver Helms have been attacking everyone they see as less than 100% behind their fight against evil.  I don't know about you, but I think such an extreme position can't be a good thing– what's Sir John Silver thinking?"	Sir John Silver	
230	"The druids of the Monolith have made a pact with the Netherworld– I know, because I met a druid who escaped from there one night.  He says unspeakable things are happening inside the Monolith, and if something isn't done soon, the outside world may soon learn more than it ever wanted to know about the secrets of the ancient place."	Netherworld Ties	
231	Tina lives with her daughter just east of Town Hall.  She teaches light expertise to skilled apprentices.	Tina Sheltan	
232	You can learn expert repair just west of the Mercenary Guild from Cyrus Montebleu.	Cyrus Montebleu	
233	Clyde teaches expert meditation skill right across the street from the Self Guild.	Clyde Dagget	
234	Sigriv can teach you expert techniques with the spear just south of the training grounds.	Sigriv	
235	"I heard that Eleanor wants the evil druids kicked out of the Monolith to the west, and she's willing to offer a reward to the people that do it.  She's on the east side of town if you want to know more."	Eleanor Vanderbilt	
236	The home of the Necromancers; no one travels to Castle Darkmoor anymore unless they're looking for undead.  I can't imagine the village of Darkmoor surviving much longer without any trade from the rest of Enroth.	Darkmoor	
237	The mountains to the west keep all the horrible creatures of Dragonsand from rampaging across the rest of Enroth.	Dragonsand	
238	"Snergle isn't a good leader, but none of the dwarves dare to stand up to him."	Snergle	
239	Terrax never left Darkmoor after he became a lich.  He could very well still be inside researching new magical spells.	Terrax	
240	The ghosts that haunt the Mire of the Damned can age you past your years with a single touch.	Ghost	
241	"Harpies will curse their unlucky victims.  Fortunately, they're pretty easy to kill."	Harpy	
242	"Even though skeletons are the weakest undead monster, some of them can curse you or fill your hearts with unnatural fear."	Skeleton	
243	"A ring useful for either a cleric or paladin, Igraine boosts the effect of their spells."	Igraine	
244	Osric requires a test of skill for promotion to champion.  Few ever succeed in that test.	Champions	
245	Connie teaches expert axe skill just outside Darkmoor village.	Connie Lettering	
246	Casey teaches expert merchant skill upstairs in the south of Darkmoor village.	Casey Ludwig	
247	Jack teaches expert mace skill across the street from Smoke and Mirrors.	Jack Crow	
248	"Avinril was an important dwarf until the new king Snergle kicked him out.  He's looking for revenge now, and needs help.  I know you can find him in the Haunt out by one of the dwarf mines."	Avinril Smythers	
249	"The Church of the Moon had a temple to the west.  Now, Cedric Druthers' druids use the temple for their ceremonies."	Old Temple	
250	The sewers under Free Haven are crawling with thieves and pests.  I can't imagine anyone WANTING to live in a sewer.	Sewers	
251	I've heard that a strange ship sails in the middle of Temper's lake.	Ship	
252	Cedric Druthers' druids now occupy an old temple of the Church of the Moon to the west of Free Haven.	Celestial Order	
253	The High Council has not once visited the Oracle since these disasters have started happening.  The wisdom of the Oracle could certainly be used now.	Oracle	
254	The pass to White Cap and Castle Stromgard is now patrolled by renegade ogres and greedy humans.	Icewind Pass	
255	"No surprise, archers will fire arrows at you.  However, some archers prefer to use flaming arrows, and the best of them can actually cast Fireball."	Archer	
256	"A sorcerer or archer's best friend, this amulet boosts the effect of elemental magic."	Morgan	
257	Osric Temper handles all the promotions of knights in Enroth.	Cavaliers	
258	"The High Council meets in Free Haven to represent the Lords of Enroth and handle the important business of the Realm.  With trouble brewing in the west, you would think they'd meet more frequently, but they still limit their hours as though nothing were happening!"	The High Council	
259	"Of all the Lords of Enroth, Osric Temper is the most concerned with handling the devils that have been attacking the western towns and villages.  I personally believe he is the only Lord with his head screwed on straight these days!"	Osric Temper	
260	I hear there's a Thieves' Guild in the city with a trap door leading into the Free Haven city sewer.  They must use it to distribute all their stolen loot around town.	Sewer Entrance	
261	The Circus of the Sun usually sets up a few days south of Castle Temper on the west side of the Crescent River.  They stay there during August of every year.	Circus of the Sun	
262	"Though small, the village of Rockham serves as a trading post and rest stop for people travelling around the Kingdom.  'Though all roads may lead to Free Haven, nearly every traveler has to pass through Rockham to get there."	Village of Rockham	
263	"When Ethric the Necromancer…died, he left instructions for his body to be placed in a tomb he had built next to the mountains south of the Pearblossom river.  It's said that he rose from the dead a few days later in a sort of infernal miracle.  Since then, the tomb has become a spiritual sink where all manner of lost souls drift to after death.  There they languish, mindlessly attacking the living in defense of their new master Ethric the Mad."	Ethric's Tomb	
264	"An unsavory company of mercenaries has moved into a fortification built by Roland during the Succession War, near Crescent Lake.  Far as I know, the mercenaries haven't done anything wrong yet, but their presence is ominous, don't you think?"	Mercenary Stronghold	
265	"Free Haven is the oldest and most prosperous city in the Kingdom.  With a natural harbor and the Oracle, it was only common sense for people to gather here since the Silence."	Free Haven	
266	"Glimmervale Lake has been the source of many supernatural sightings lately.  People say the sightings are caused by the tampering of the Necromancer's Guild, disbanded now for ten years.  Who knows what damage they caused before King Roland put a stop to their evil?"	Glimmervale Lake	
267	"Temple Stone in Free Haven was recently burnt to the ground by a group of monks trying to steal the sacred chalice from the temple.  They fled east by boat, and nobody's seen them since."	Temple Stone	
268	"I don't know if you've noticed, but those creepy followers of Baa keep popping in and out of buildings around town in the strangest manner.  Could be that they've located one of their temples in the city sewer system."	Baa in the Sewer	
269	"Maybe there really is something to the notion that evil is down, while good is up.  Both the followers of Baa and members of the Shadow Guild can be found in the city sewers.  Would that we have a big flood one day to wash all that trash out to sea!"	Prince of Thieves	
270	"Beware bandits on the road to Blackshire!  Ever since the King went off to who knows where, criminals have been plying the roads between all the major cities."	Bandits	
271	"Liches are the only form of the living dead that actually chooses to be living dead.  A lich is the rotting skeleton of a powerful cleric or sorcerer, held together by necromantic rites performed during life.  A relatively new monster, it is said that Ethric the Mad was the first sorcerer to discover and perform the Ritual of the Endless Night, simultaneously becoming the world's first lich and necromancer. <Shuddering> Creepy, huh?"	Liches	
272	"The mercenaries living in that stronghold near Castle Temper seem to have a lot of money, because they keep ordering up weapons and supplies.  Someone must be paying them for some reason, but who?"	Mercenary Stronghold	
273	"I hear the former King of the Dwarves is hiding out in some local tavern, drowning his sorrows after being deposed by Snergle.  A sorry fate for Roland's most steadfast ally during the War!  I'll bet if King Roland were around he would help him out."	Rocklin	
274	Timothy teaches expert body magic southwest of the four elemental guilds.	Timothy O'Hoolihan	
275	Michael teaches expert sword skill just northeast of the body guild.	Michael Ogilvy	
276	Sylvester can show you new diplomacy tricks south of Town Square.	Sylvester Moor	
277	Livia will teach promising merchants a few expert techniques south of Town Square.	Livia Farrel	
278	Takao teaches expert shield just west of the Sharpening Stone.	Takao	
279	Mynasia teaches expert mind magic southwest of the four elemental guilds.	Mynasia	
280	Michele teaches expert spirit magic southwest of the four elemental guilds.	Michele Blackshire	
281	You can find expert disarm training from Ivan right near the Smugglers' Guild.	Ivan Magyar	
282	"Logan lives just northeast of the body guild, and he teaches expert dagger skill."	Logan Dasher	
283	Jack teaches expert fire magic just south of Temple Stone.	Jack Van Imp	
284	"Woodrow lives just southwest of the mind guild, and he teaches expert plate skill."	Woodrow Albright	
285	Hitomi teaches expert water magic just south of Temple Stone.	Hitomi Mirumoto	
286	Li teaches expert earth magic just south of Temple Stone.	Li Tizare	
287	Zodahn teaches expert air magic just south of Temple Stone.	Zodahn Delphi	
288	"Zoltan was complaining recently that a new artifact for his collection was stolen by the Dragoons to the south of here.  He's put up a bounty for its return, go to his house just south of Town Square for more information."	Zoltan Phelps	
289	"Gabriel said he was working on a way to reverse some weird undead ritual.  I don't know much about rituals, but I do know that Gabriel lives just south of Temple Stone if you want to ask him about it."	Gabriel Cartman	
290	Carlo's good friend Sherell is lost in Bootleg Bay; he's looking for people to help him out near the docks.	Carlo Tormini	
291	Rumor has it that the main Shadow Guild guildhall is located very close to Castle Stone.  	Shadow Guild	
292	The pass to the Frozen Highlands is unsafe to travel now because of the ogres and humans that took over Icewind Keep.	Icewind Pass	
293	"Magyars are straightforward fighters, but the magyar matrons can attack with a deadly electrical blast."	Magyar	
294	"This seemingly simple mace bursts into flames when used, simultaneously dealing a vicious flame attack on its victim and also protecting its wielder from fire."	Ares	
295	"Anthony Stone, among other things, promotes deserving Clerics to Priests."	Priests	
296	"Erik Von Stromgard is the finest archer in the lands, and as such is given the task of training and promoting archers."	Warrior Mages	
297	"Lord Stromgard is without a doubt the greatest archer in the land.  He always competes in the major competitions, and I've never seen him lose.  "	Erik Von Stromgard	
298	"Lord Stone has the dual role of being the High Priest of the Realm and the overseer of underworld activity.  A very strange combination, I suppose, but he certainly does seem to keep the peace.  Long may he live!"	Anthony Stone	
299	"Icewind Keep was once Lord Stromgard's first castle, but he lost it to an attack of ogres and evil humans about a year ago.  He's moved to his second castle east of White Cap, but they say he's rather bitter about the loss and thinks only of revenge these days."	Icewind Keep	
300	The Shadow Guild is a new Thieves' Guild created to challenge Lord Stone's authority over the underworld.  They have two hideouts– one near Castle Ironfist and the other within spitting distance of Castle Stone.  It looks to me like they're spoiling for a fight!	Shadow Guild	
301	"White Cap is the third largest town in Enroth, and it's been suffering ever since Lord Stromgard lost Icewind Keep to the ogres last year.  The ogres keep raiding caravans trying to go through the pass.  If the caravans ever stop, it'll be the end for the town."	White Cap	
302	"Sure has been a long time since last summer, I think.  MUCH too long.  Something is wrong with the weather, and I'm beginning to think the gods are punishing us for supporting the Ironfist dynasty!"	Long winter	
303	"If tales told be true, the Shadow Guild and the Temple of Baa are in cahoots to ruin the Kingdom.  I hear the Temple has been magically extending winter in these parts, and the ritual materials they need are being supplied by the Shadow Guild."	Shadow Guild	
304	"If you've ever seen a sorcerer try to fly near a town, you may have been treated to the sight of the Dragon Towers shooting him down.  Dragon Towers shoot at anything that flies near a town, because they have trouble telling the difference between a man and a dragon.  Be careful!"	Dragon Towers	
305	"It sure is a bad thing that those ogres have control over Icewind keep!  Some of their human allies are archers, and they like to shoot at people going through the pass.  They've been real bad for business at White Cap, believe me."	Icewind Keep	
306	"There are a few important passes in the kingdom, and more and more they're controlled by monsters rather than the king's men.  If things go the way they're going much longer, we'll have to pay taxes to the devils instead of the king!"	Passes	
307	A master of air I spoke with some time ago claims that someone is tinkering with the weather using ritual magic.  He says he traced the magic back to one of those temples of Baa that've been springing up all over the place recently.  	Winter from Baa	
308	"The mountains around here have some mighty strange hermits living in them here and there.  Most are crazy, but a few go there to meditate on truths not meant for mortal man to know."	Hermits	
309	"If you look carefully in the mountains of this Kingdom, you might come across a pass that can cut days off your travel."	Secret Pass	
310	"Both Lord Stromgard and Lord Stone were key supporters of King Roland during the Succession Wars.  They owe their current positions to that support, and I think they have been amongst the most conscientious of the Lords of the Realm."	Succession War	
311	Dickson teaches expert mace just west of Castle Stromgard.	Dickson Parks	
312	Jed teaches expert bow just west of Castle Stromgard.	Jed Morrison	
313	Morton teaches expert dark magic in the southwest of White Cap.	Morton Holovin	
314	I've heard that Abdul has his resort in the south of Dragonsand.  Some resort!  It's probably filled with dragons.	Abdul's Resort Isle	
315	"There's a strange pyramid in the middle of Dragonsand.  No one has any idea who built it, though."	Pyramid	
316	"Wyrms move very quickly on the ground, but cannot fly.  They attack with a poisonous breath attack."	Wyrm	
317	Fire Lizards are just one of a variety of draconian creatures found in Dragonsand.	Fire Lizard	
318	"Wielders of Cronos gain an incredible boost to their vitality.  They'll need anything they can get, because troubles and misfortune constantly follow this axe."	Cronos	
319	A cave near Blackshire opened about the same time that people in the town started disappearing.	Lair of the Wolf	
320	The people of Blackshire have fallen under a terrible curse– they turn into werewolves at night!	Blackshire	
321	"An old temple sits in the center of Star Island.  Strangely enough, the number of statues on the island has slowly increased over time."	Star Island	
322	"Werewolves are simply people that turn into a half-man, half-beast creature at night.  They are especially powerful under a full moon."	Werewolf	
323	"Air elementals flitter about in the valley between the Frozen Highlands and Dragonsand.  Though the weakest elementals, they're fast and have a nasty electrical attack."	Air Elemental	
324	"The sword of a mighty warrior, Hercules confers a huge boost to might and endurance, but at the cost of the wielder's intellect."	Hercules	
325	No one has been promoted to high priest in ages.  I wonder what Anthony Stone requires from Priests for that promotion?	High Priests	
326	"The island at the center of Star Lake is home to some monsters straight from the heart of hell!  I heard about someone who rowed out there one night with some friends and these huge snake creatures came boiling up out of the ground.  They had to but look you in the eye to turn you right to stone!  Anyway, this guy was the only one to make it back alive, he says, and he did it by running and not looking back! "	Medusas	
327	"A terrible curse has befallen the people in this area, and everyone thinks they know the source– it's that new cave that opened itself up in the side of the mountain south of town.  Someone needs to go in there and end the curse, but bravery's at a premium in Blackshire, these days."	Lair of the Wolf	
328	"Dragonsand is the home and breeding ground of the dragons of Enroth.  Never will you find a more fierce or terrible monster than a dragon, and never will you find one that is gentle or kind.  "	Dragons	
329	The Circus of the Sun likes to set up alongside the road between Blackshire and Star Lake.  They're around here every year during April.  It's a good show– well worth the money to go see it!	Circus of the Sun	
330	"The road leading west from Blackshire has gone from the safest road in the Kingdom to the most dangerous.  West of here lies Pleasant Valley, and the name has long since become a joke.  Now that valley is a barren and ruined land, crawling with those hideous new monsters– the devils."	Western Trade Road	
331	"Just go west down the road from Blackshire a few days and you're sure to see some devils.  You better be able to run pretty fast, though!"	Devils	
332	"Lord Kilburn disappeared while patrolling the road leading from Blackshire to Pleasant Valley.  At least, that's what people are saying.  If you're looking for him, you might want to start looking around there."	Rangers	
333	"We all saw the king fleeing from the devils toward Castle Kriegspire a while back.  Haven't heard from him since.  Sad.  I think the devils will take us all, before long."	Roland	
334	Ambrose teaches expert dark magic in the town of Blackshire.	Ambrose Brusse	
335	"Castle Kriegspire, at one time, was the center of magical experimentation in creating creatures.  Now, it's abandoned and the creatures run rampant inside.  The volcano it rests in was created to keep all the monsters in."	Kriegspire	
336	"Agar, one of Archibald's sorcerers, was the most skilled of the experimenters in Kriegspire.  His monsters are the ones crawling around the castle now.  He left with the rest of the mages, but no one knows where he went to."	Agar	
337	"Though weaker than dragons, drakes are nothing to sneer at.  These flying reptiles have powerful elemental attacks."	Flame Drake	
338	Some of the minotaurs escaped from Kriegspire and now roam in and around the volcano surrounding the old castle.	Minotaur	
339	"Earth elementals prowl around the area of Kriegspire.  Free from the mages that summoned them, theses elementals look to destroy whatever they come across."	Earth Elemental	
340	"No armor in the world can match Apollo for protection against elemental spells.  Unfortunately, the armor gains its power from sapping the endurance of its wearer."	Apollo	
341	"The Superior Temple of Baa was constructed about a year ago against the mountains east of Castle Kriegspire.  Unlike most of their temples, it's closed to the public.  You'll have to join them if you ever want to be let in."	Superior Temple	
342	The village of Edenbrook wouldn't be around these days if it weren't for King Roland and his men.  They saved it from a horde of devils a little while back.	Battle of Edenbrook	
343	"When the king fled to Castle Kriegspire he was followed by an enormous army of devils.  A couple of days later a few dozen devils were seen leaving the old volcano the castle occupies, but the King himself hasn't been seen since."	Battle at Kriegspire	
344	"Rarely do humans and dragons get along, but the death knights have formed some sort of pact with a group of dragons in a keep on the north side of the mountains near Kriegspire."	Death Knights	
345	Nicholas can show you expert techniques with the magic of light in the village of Kriegspire.	Nicholas Roth	
346	"Titans are second in power only to the mighty dragons.  Not only do titans possess an incredible electric attack, they are skilled in mind magic and favor the Psychic Shock spell."	Titan	
347	"Fire elementals seem to like Hermit's Isle, though who would summon them there is a mystery."	Fire Elemental	
348	"Although this crown reduces the reaction time of its wearer, it also makes the wearer incredibly resistant to elemental magic."	Odin	
349	"Hermit's Island has recently become home to the Supreme Temple of Baa.  They have found an ancient installation to put their temple in, and are no doubt performing dark experiments as we speak."	Hermit's Isle	
350	"Dragonsand, the great desert of Enroth, is home to all the worst monsters in the world.  Dragons, titans, and other oversized killer monsters roam the sands freely on whatever errands such creatures find important.  Humans foolish enough to travel the desert learn to run and hide very quickly, or they don't last long."	Dragonsand	
351	"Once the greenest and most fertile of lands in Enroth, Pleasant Valley has fallen under a curse that has caused the plants to wither, the animals to sicken, and the people to leave.  It is a barren land now, and no one wants to live there."	Pleasant valley	
352	"Shortly after the Night of Shooting Stars, the blight began to eat away at Pleasant Valley.  In a few short years, nearly all the plants and animals had sickened and died, and the villagers and farmers living in the valley had to move east to find food.  The blight has shown no signs of abating– rather, it has accelerated, and will one day cover the entire continent unless something is done to stop it."	The Blight	
353	"Most of the devils you see in Pleasant Valley are in fact worker or soldier devils.  They are organized like ants, only they have intelligent leaders.  The leaders can fly, and their best leaders can use human speech and writing."	Devils	
354	"Though powerful, the devils are far from invincible.  King Roland fought and won a battle at Sweet Water Pass by outmaneuvering them and outthinking them.  They're tough, but they die like anything else does when you put a sword through it!"	Sweet Water Pass	
355	"These legendary boots make the wearer a blur, able to react instantly to any situation."	Hermes	
356	The devils seem to swarm around a strange building near the remains of Sweet Water.	Hive	
357	"Although the ruins of the buildings are still there, the town is completely destroyed.  No one lives there anymore."	Sweet Water	
358	The forest of Blackwoode has been wiped out completely since the night of Shooting Stars.	Blackwoode	
359	The devils seem to prefer fire attacks and enjoy attacking in large groups.  Some of the most powerful can cast spells from the fire school.	Devils	
360	"This odd amulet will grant its wearer extra vitality, spell points, and luck."	Hera	
361	"Sweet Water used to be the most beautiful town in the kingdom, but no news has come from it since the Night of Shooting Stars.  I think the shooting star landed right on top of the town, leaving no survivors to tell the tale."	Sweet Water	
362	"The Oracle had warned of the coming of devils from the sky in writings long ago.  I don't think anyone remembers, and of those who do, no one thinks the Night of Shooting Stars and the devils are connected.  "	Night of Shooting Stars	
363	"I met a man who went to discover the fate of the town of Sweet Water, and he says that the place was burnt to the ground by the devils.  The devils have built a strange tower near the old town, and eerie noises come from it every twenty minutes.  He would have explored further, but there were so many devils near the tower he didn't dare."	Lair of the Devils	
364	"Have you noticed how Temples of Baa have been sprouting up throughout the kingdom?  They're everywhere, and I for one think it's an ominous development.  Although they offer free healing, they don't seem to be doing it out of kindness– there must be a method to their madness!"	Agents of Baa	
365	The queen left quite a while ago for her home country of Erathia.  People are getting worried– what if something happened to her during her trip?	Queen Catherine	
366	"Most of the shipping in Enroth follows a set schedule.  If you're in the right place at the right time, the shipping companies can take you great distances quickly and cheaply."	Sea Travel	
367	"The legends say that the great ship used in the Crossing lies buried under a giant stone tomb in the middle of Dragonsand.  There must have been a lake or ocean long ago where the desert is now, for the ship to end up in the middle of the desert!"	Tomb of VARN	
368	"If you touch one of the obelisks scattered around the kingdom, you'll get a part of a riddle no one's yet unraveled.  People say that a great treasure lies buried somewhere in Enroth, and the one who finds the answer to the riddle will find the treasure."	Obelisks	
369	"Beware the Dragon Towers you'll find near every major settlement.  They will shoot a fireball at anyone flying.  I guess they're meant to protect the towns from dragons and other flying monsters, but they can't tell the difference between a man and a monster."	Dragon Towers	
370	"Some people are saying the Temple of Baa and the devils are in league!  It makes sense– the temple first appeared a few months after the Night of Shooting Stars, and we all know the devils and that night are related!"	Devils and Baa	
371	"There's a rumor going 'round that Slicker Silvertongue, Wilbur Humphrey's representative on the High Council, is a traitor.  People are saying he's been seen in several Temples of Baa, and everyone knows the temple is against the king!"	Traitor on the Council	
372	"Weather sure has turned sour since the Night of Shooting Stars.  Every summer seems colder than the last.  Why, I'd venture to say last summer was the coldest winter I've ever experienced!  'Course, that's an exaggeration, but you know what I mean.  Something's wrong!"	Weather	
373	Doesn't it seem there's been more floods and earthquakes since the king disappeared?  It's as though the gods are angry with the king and his dynasty.  Perhaps they have lost the Mandate of Heaven.	Disasters	
374	"Though the Temple of Baa may offer free healing, it seems to me that more things go wrong, and more people get hurt, when one of their temples is nearby.  Could it be they are cursing the people near them, and then healing them for some bizarre reason?"	Curses	
375	Have you ever seen Archibald's statue in the library behind Castle Ironfist?  It is amazingly lifelike… almost as though he was turned to stone rather than sculpted.	Archibald	
376	"The western province of Pleasant Valley has undergone a shocking transformation in the last few years.  Once it was a rich, fertile farming region.  Now all the plants have died from a terrible blight, and the water has dried up.  All the animals sickened or died, and all the people had to move away to find food to eat."	The Blight	
377	"Ancient legends say that all the greatest artifacts from before the Silence came with the ship our distant ancestors used to get here from their homeland.  They say the voyage was so long that three generations of people were born, lived, and died while aboard the ship!  How's that for a whopper of a tale?!"	Legend of the Crossing	
378	"Erathia is the second major continent to be settled in the world.  It is a lot wilder and more unsafe than Enroth, and all the little kingdoms there are always bickering and fighting."	Erathia	
379	"The islands east of Enroth are all part of the 'Kingdom' of Regna.  They were settled by the most nasty and violent of people hundreds of years ago, and they haven't changed their ways.  They are pirates and mercenaries to a man, and have no regard for the sorrow they cause by siding with petty tyrants and usurpers like Archibald was."	Regna	
380	"If the old tales are true, the dwarves were once just like the rest of us, but before the Crossing, the dwarves lived in a place where they and everything around them weighed a lot more.  The stories say this made them very short and very strong, and they haven't changed since."	Dwarves	
381 M	I don't like Mondays.	Monday
382	The best armor shop in all of Enroth is the Enchanted Hauberk.  The proprietor's name is Teddy, but he hates to be called that.  Safer to refer to him as Theodore.	The Enchanted Hauberk
383	The best magic shop in the kingdom is Mighty Magicks.  It is possible to find there the most unusual and powerful enchanted items for sale anywhere.	Magic Shops
384	Be careful with even ordinary objects.  If something is magical, get an expert like me to identify it before you sell it for pennies on the gold piece of its true worth.  You can be surprised by what there is to find out there, and you might sell off something very useful.	Treasures
385	The lands to the far west of the continent used to be green and fertile, but have wasted to an unhappy land of cracked earth, bad smells, and barren landscapes.	Western Wastes
386	Most civilized areas you'll find are in the east.  While there are some small towns and villages located to the west, don't count on finding many.	Eastern Seaboard
387	This ghastly place is named for all of the undead that prowl it.  Rumor has it that people killed in the mire return as undead guardians of the place.  	Mire of the Damned
388	There are some places you can't get to by boat, during different times of the year.  You should plan your trips carefully to avoid inconvenience.	Travel Seasons
389	Many areas of the oceans are home to giant sea serpents.  Though not much danger to ships, they can be lethal to people, water walking or even bystanders on the coast.	Sea Serpents
390	If you are wounded enough, you will fall unconscious.  Taking a wound while unconscious almost always leads to death.	Unconscious
391	Mixing poppysnaps, phirna root, or widoweeps berries with water in an empty potion bottle will make a simple potion.  These simple potions have limited beneficial effects, but are stronger than the herbs by themselves.	Alchemy Basics
392	Let me tell you the effects of the simple potions.  Red potions are minor healing, blue potions are minor spell point gain, and yellow potions are a boost to all seven statistics.	Advanced Alchemy
393	Because skills get so difficult to learn once you've achieved a high level in them, it is much more efficient to learn many skills to a moderate level, rather than a couple of skills to a high level.	Skills
394	Kriegspire, one of the centers of magical experimentation, has been swallowed by an enormous volcano.  Surely one of their experiments must have gone completely awry.	Kriegspire
395	The three most important things to remember in a battle are:  Don't get surrounded, concentrate on killing a single enemy before moving on to another, and don't be afraid to run.  No shame in living another day!	Battle Tactics
396	A finely crafted weapon is a rare find, but a magic weapon is a treasure indeed.  Magic weapons are often more damaging, faster, and sometimes even have spells imbedded into them.  Your skill is important, but having a great weapon certainly doesn't hurt either.	Magic Weapons
397	When fighting in a place that is very hot or cold, try using the opposite kind of spell on your enemies.  Often they are resistant or immune to the element they're used to living in.	Elemental Spells
398	Some sorcerers have cheated death itself in their attempts to gain power.  These sorcerers trade their lives for eternal life as an undead.   I can't imagine the lust for power that would cause someone to trade their soul.  Liches are powerful and determined; you should be careful fighting them. 	Liches
399	Light magic makes up one half of the Mirrored Path.  Light cannot exist without dark, nor dark without light.  The spells in the school of light are what most people would call 'holy.'  It is difficult to find training in this path, but the rewards are certainly worth the effort.	Light Magic
400	Merchants respond to a customer's skill in bargaining.  It's important to only use your best negotiator when you buy or sell anything with a  merchant. 	Merchants
401	A group of bandits called the Dragoons are now preying on merchants travelling between Free Haven and New Sorpigal.	Dragoons
402	A while back I was exploring the Star Lake area, and saw a bunch of statues on the island at the center of the lake.  They were marvelously carved– the most lifelike statues I've ever seen.  I wonder who put them there?	Star Lake
403	The law of the land is simple:  Do not murder, do not threaten, do not bribe.  Begging is frowned upon, as is keeping company with known criminals.  Reputation is everything.	The Ironfist Code
404	Enroth is ruled by a king, and the council of five lords.  These six people handle the laws, rules, and matters of state for all of Enroth.	Lords
405	When someone has a chest or other lock they don't want you to get into, they'll usually trap it rather than lock it.  Everyone knows that a determined thief will eventually get through a lock, but not every determined thief will survive the trap once he opens the chest.	Locks
406	Some locks are bound by magical enchantments.  You won't be able to open them, no matter how fine a locksmith you are, unless you have the magical key necessary.	Magical Locks 
407	Have you heard of the Temple of Baa?  They're wonderful!  My family was hungry and they fed us when no one else would.  All we had to do was promise to come back!	Temple of Baa
408	People often remark at how lucky I am.  It's not so much that I'm lucky, it's that I look on the bright side of everything.  You'd be amazed at how trivial some of your worst problems are if you look at them from the right angle.	Positive Thinking
409	Every now and then there's someone who needs to go to a strange place, like Castle Kriegspire.  Like this one fellow the other day, he paid me well to help him and his servants carry stuff over the lip of Kriegspire Mountain and into its center.  His servants didn't look too healthy, either, but they never got tired.  Smelled bad, too.	Kriegspire
410	Paradise Valley is no more.  All that's left from the Night of the Shooting Stars is a barren wasteland.  I've seen it, but I didn't have the courage to venture into it.  I'm not sure what sort of acts the people of Paradise Valley did to justify that sort of Heavenly retribution, but they must have been foul indeed.	Wastelands
411	Ah!  There's nothing like sitting next to the fire at home with a glass of wine, my dog at my feet, and a good balance sheet to work on.  That's the life!	Accountancy
412	There's no two ways about it– you always need gold.  Everything has a price; hopefully you can pay it.	Gold
413	Terrible things have been happening lately.  I heard about a village that was washed away in the recent heavy rains when their local creek overflowed its banks, and the news from Sweet Water is so bad there's been no news– people are saying the entire town was wiped out!	Evil Tidings
414	I've heard the tales of the supper served to Roland's expedition the night before they left.  I wonder if any of them expected to return based on the accounts I've heard of that feast.  The luxury afforded to those men certainly sounded to me like some sort of last meal.	Roland's Last Supper
415	Our horses around here are thankfully very tame, but there are some centaurs– half man, half horse– roaming the countryside of Erathia.  The centaurs like to gather in tribes and make war on the humans and elves living near them.	Centaurs
416	The sewers under Free Haven house all sorts of interesting things.  I've heard stories of hideouts, temples, treasure, and well, sewage.  I don’t know which to believe, but it certainly seems like an interesting place.	Free Haven
417	Beware taking long trips for a few days– three planets are in retrograde, and one is actually on its third epicycle stage this month, all while Leo is ascending against Pisces' lateral movement.  Don't say I didn’t warn you!	Retrograde
418	There are some places you can't get to during different parts of the year by boat.  You should plan your trips carefully to avoid inconvenience.	Travel Seasons
419	Magical flying is constrained to a certain altitude, so certain high mountains will block magical flight.  Given all the advantages of flight, that's really a very minor drawback.	Mountains
420	The water in the lakes and seas around Enroth is very cold, and even the best swimmers can drown in it.  If you fall in the water, get out as fast as you can!  You can't survive long there, no matter how tough you think you are.	Drowning
421	An excellent spell, but unfortunately most towns are in the east, so you won't get very far exploring with this spell.  Of course, if you need to run back to town, this is the easiest way to go.	Town Portal
422	Although they were a heretical religion, their heart was in the right place.  The Church helped the poor, healed the sick, and comforted the distraught.  But they grew rich, powerful, and prideful, and pride indeed goeth before a fall.  When they attacked their rival, the Church of the Moon, they brought both their enemy and themselves down.	Church of the Sun
423	It's hard to make a living these days playing music in the taverns.  I've been travelling between the towns for years, but people are really scared these days.  Everyone is afraid to spend money.	Taverns
424	Boats don't always travel on the schedules or to the destinations you want.  If you want personal control over your water travel, the water walk spell is the way to go.	Walk on Water
425	The cutlass is a better weapon than the broadsword for many reasons, but the best is the way it's swept backward to deceive your opponent about the length of your weapon's reach.  The smithies of Regna turn out the best cutlasses in the world, you can bet on that, matey!	Cutlasses
426	Chadwick, a veteran of the Succession Wars, lives in Free Haven.  He's the most decorated living cavalier in Enroth, and one of Osric's favorite knights.	Chadwick
427	Most games of chance are made to separate fools from their money.  Unless you're a psychic or phenomenally lucky, don't waste your hard earned gold on them.	Games of Chance
428	With the death of Roland and rumors of a collapse of the Ironfist Rule, the roads are almost unsafe to travel anymore.  Brigands and bandits of all sorts now prey on anyone travelling too far from the protection of the castles.	Brigands
429	If you must resort to 'special' measures to get someone to talk to you, remember that begging is almost free of consequences.  Some types, however, just won't listen to a beggar, forcing you to try another tack.  Thieves and merchants never tolerate begging.	Begging
430	Nicolai Ironfist is my twin brother.  I'll bet you didn't know that, did you?  We were separated a long time ago by our father, Roland.  They've used magic to keep Nicolai looking so young, but he's really my age.	Nicolai 
431	Most people like to talk about the sewers of Free Haven as a home for all sorts of thieves.  I doubt it though.  I'd certainly live in a nice house with plenty of butlers and maids if I had my druthers.  Why would I choose to live in a sewer?	Sewers
432	Have you heard of the Temple of Baa?  They're wonderful!  My family was hungry and they fed us when no one else would.  All we had to do was promise to come back!	Temple of Baa
433	We need a real king, not a child.  How can Nicolai be a good ruler when he's still a child?	Nicolai 
434	There's not much difference in cloak styles, except a general color or fabric choice.  There is one that stands out,  however, as quite unusual.  That's the Doomsday Cloak, fabricated 80 years ago by the Church of the Moon.  You can recognize it buy it's black interior lining and silver hem.  These cloaks are invariably highly enchanted.	Cloaks
435	Someone has to do all the grunt labor around here.  Too bad that someone is me.	Work
436	All this cold weather's really got me worried.  It's really unusual, and I'm concerned for the health of my crop.	Cold Weather
437	If I had a Heavenly Forge, I could make hundreds of barrels a day and not break a sweat.  I guess those forges were one good thing about the Time of Wonders.	Heavenly Forge
438	To make strong, excellent pottery, you really need a hot fire.  If it weren't so dangerous, I'd make a trip to Castle Kriegspire to try out the fires they're supposed to have under the castle.  	Hot Fires
439	When the storms hit in July, I was completely unprepared for the demand for winter clothes.  Now that I'm ready for the winter demand, it hasn't been all that cold.  I must have done something to anger the Heavens!	Weather
440	There are a few different kinds of magical boots that alchemists have been making.  Most of the metallic ones have some sort of enchantment on them.	Magical Boots
441	Why isn't anyone doing anything about all the bad things happening?  Isn't that what the council is there for?	High Council
442	There must be something wrong with this year's grain crops.  I can't seem to find enough sellers of raw wheat and corn to make my business run properly.  I don't know how much longer this can go on before I'm broke.	Grain Prices
443	The metal weapons aren't the only things to be enchanted.  Wooden weapons, like bows, sometimes have powerful spells placed in them as well.	Enchanting
444	Marble is the finest building material money can buy.  Most of it comes from the hills near Blackshire...   which is too bad, since people are saying there's some sort of terrible curse on the people of that area. Not much work is getting done around there these days.	Marble
445	"How can you recognize a goblin pirate?

He is the one with the patch over both eyes!"	Joke of the Day
446	Monsters been eating the good game animals, lately.  Lots more monsters than usual.	Monsters
447	I can't believe how few people will actually part with a little money for a wretch like me.  Is everyone so selfish?	Wealth
448	Don't tell no one, but I have a cleric friend who heals the brand marks right off the cattle we, ah, borrow from all the ranchers.  Works like a charm!	Fencing
449	The destruction of Paradise Valley wiped out the grandest forest in Enroth, Blackwoode Forest.  A peaceful place, Blackwoode Forest was full of game.  I made a good living there among the trees.  Now I'm not sure where to hunt.	Blackwoode
450	You can't even begin to understand how unpleasant working for the nobility is.  They may have money, but no other client is so pushy, demanding, or uncaring about the way they use your time.	Pushy Nobles
451	The Island Empire of Regna hasn't converted to Baa yet.  I'm hoping to travel there to spread the word of Baa.	Regna
452	We get all of our important shipments in on Tuesdays.	Tuesday
453	Fortunately, most violent people take their aggressions out in the Arena, and not in the towns.	Arena
454	The High Council hasn't consulted the Oracle for years.  The last person to try was Archibald, and the Oracle didn't help him out at all.	Oracle
455	There is nothing worse than new religions promising the world to the underprivileged.  They are upsetting the applecart and fomenting rebellion.  This Temple of Baa that everyone is talking about– now, they're no good.  I do wish the regent would mobilize against them.	Upstart Religions
456	Baa, friend…oh.  Uh, I thought you were a member of my temple.  Sorry, my mistake.  	Fellow Travelers
457	I hate school.  My father says I need to work hard so that I can get a good job, maybe even learn to study magic.  Who cares about that?  I just want to play!	School
458 T	Not to ruin my business, but to be honest, if you think about it, it really pays to only hire us smiths when you need us, rather than carrying us around wherever you go.	Hiring Smiths
459	Not to ruin my business, but to be honest, if you think about it, it really pays to only hire us smiths when you need us, rather than carrying us around wherever you go.	Hiring smiths
460	If you ever find an item containing the Lloyd's Beacon spell, remember that the locations you are able to transport to are based per person.  That means that even a non-spell using person could have a location that they can transport to with the use of a Lloyd's Beacon item.	Lloyd's Beacon items
461	There are three plants that can be used to make the three basic potions.  They are poppysnaps, phirna root, and widoweeps berries.  Just mix the crushed flowers, roots, or berries respectively with water to get the potion.	Herbs
462	Castle Kriegspire was originally built to study the extinct volcano in which it rests, but recent activity from that mountain has chased all humans from the castle.  It hasn't been destroyed yet, but monsters are the only ones that dare live inside it.	Castle Kriegspire
463	The dragons from Dragonsand have taken advantage of the devils' attacks and have spread out from the desert into the nearby wastelands. They are even rumored to be as north as Kriegspire.	Dragons
464	Some monsters can be reasoned with.   If you know the charm spell, for instance, you can make even the most ferocious of beasts temporarily friendly.  Remember– you don't have to kill everything you meet.  Sometimes just getting past them is enough.	Enemies 
465	Lady Fleise is the Queen of the Merchants, and she has built a huge fortune by controlling shipping prices.	Loretta Fleise
466	Occasionally some coastal towns or slow ships are attacked by pirates.  Fortunately, pirates are rare, but their attacks can affect prices in the towns they plunder.	Pirates
467	Certain monsters and spells can reduce your body to ashes, making efforts to raise the dead difficult.  We healers call this eradication.  Only special temples and spells can cure eradication.	Eradication
468	You don't need a powerful spell caster with you for healing.  All the towns and castles have temples with healers.  You can make healing potions, find items with healing spells in them, or even magical fountains or shrines that can heal you.	Healing Alternatives
469	The largest Guild of the Self was founded in Silver Cove.	Guild of the Self
470	Whenever you have the opportunity, it pays to become an expert or master in any given skill you've been practicing.  Experts and masters enjoy benefits and effects out of the reach of people who just learn the basic skill.	Experts and Masters
471	It's important to fight creatures challenging to you.  If you fight weak creatures, you don't learn much experience, and if you fight hard creatures, you run the risk of dying.  The creatures at your skill level are the most rewarding to learn from.	Opponents
472	Always wear armor if you can!  Always!  And spend a little effort to learn to use it or you'll wallow like a pregnant yak in a fight!	Armor
473	A man had wandered through not too long ago proclaiming to have knowledge of ancient weapons, the likes of which have not been seen since the Time of Wonders.  We laughed him and his insane ramblings right out of town.	Ancient Weapons
474	This spell is my personal favorite.  It works best on the strongest and toughest monsters by making them heavier, and smashes lots of important internal organs.  It seems to cut their health in half, and with the strong ones, that can be quite a bit.	The Wonders of Mass Distortion
475	The greatest magical researcher since the Silence, Twillen's age has finally caught up with him.  The last I heard, he was searching for a way to find his youth again.  I don't think even he can counter the forces of nature.	Twillen
476	Dark magic makes up one half of the Mirrored Path.  Dark cannot exist without light, nor light without dark.  'Evil' is the word most commonly associated with the school of dark, but that's not true.  A school, like a weapon, isn't good or evil by itself–  it's morality is determined by its use.	Dark Magic
477	Although banks in Enroth don't pay interest, they protect your money from theft and loss.  You should consider putting your money in a bank before embarking on any long or dangerous trips.	Banks
478	Ahhh, the point of being a merchant!  Gold makes the world move.  Economies bustle with exchange of gold, from markets to farms, to towns, to kingdoms– everywhere!  Even kings spend the lives of their men more readily than they will their gold.  Being a merchant is the way to accumulate wealth, and that wealth gives me a status that most people will never have.	Gold
479	There is a small village around Abdul's Desert Resort that sells some of the finest magic equipment I've ever seen.  Heaven knows where they get it, but it sure is nice to know that stuff is available there.	Desert Villagers
480	Beware of highwaymen plying the roads between towns.  Wise travelers will take advantage of Enroth's many high quality banking establishments to avoid being completely robbed by these parasites.	Bandits
481	A whole culture of underworld people exists, though it is sometimes difficult to find.  Thieves and criminals have their own organizations and codes, and are surprisingly good at spreading information.  Though you can't always trust them, it's wise to use them as best you can.	Underworld
482	I've build a few secret doors in my day, and I think I can safely say that some of them are virtually indistinguishable from a plain old wall.  If you have the Wizard Eye spell, you can use it to look at the map it makes for you and logically work out whether or not a section of wall is part of a secret door.	Secret Doors
483	Hey!  I'm a legitimate locksmith, not some shady burglar or thief.  I help protect peoples' belongings, not steal them.	Thief
484	A pipe gives a wise man something to think about and a fool something to stick in his mouth.	Wise Men
485	Speaking of dooming yourself, poor Roland should never have bitten off as much as he did.  I'm sure he met his end courageously, but it was far too early in his life.	King Roland
486	Don't be careless with the way you pack your goods in your backpack!  A little organization can save a lot of space, and let you carry more.  No one's going to do it for you, you know!	Packing your Goods
487	Some places it is simply too dangerous to rest.  Never assume you can rest in a difficult area.  Try and save enough strength to be able to retreat to a safer area.	Resting Safety
488	You know, it really makes me uncomfortable to have to do business with or hear accounts from criminals.  I know they've stolen money, but what am I to do about that?  Jail is reserved for only the most violent or persistent of criminals.  Bring back Archibald and the good old fashioned execution, that's what I say!  King Roland's too soft, and so is his regent.	Shady Dealings
489	One of the best ways to make money is to curb your expenses.  Find the cheapest places to get supplies, healing, and training.  Don't hire people you don't need, don't pay for travel unless you need to, and don't buy items you don't intend to use.  Saving money is as important as making it.	Expenses
490	There's a way to make a powerful potion by mixing common herbs into water and the simple potions that process makes into more complex potions.  I know that if you mix an orange potion with a green potion you'll end up with a white potion of extreme protection.  There's a lot of other combinations you could try, but experimenting is dangerous!	Potions
491	I love a well prepared steak, seasoned with a few herbs, and served with onions and mushrooms.  Add some steamed vegetables, maybe a potato, and some good ale… now that's a meal!	Favorite Dishes
492	Now, not a lot of people like to go to the Mire of the Damned, and I'm one of them.  Horses don't belong there, either, and I don't think you'll soon find a stagecoach company willing to take you there.  My advice is to stay away from that place.  	Swamp Travel
493	In my last visit to Castle Ironfist, Nicolai raved over how much he wanted to visit the circus.  I played a few songs from the circus for him, and he seemed to appreciate the gesture a great deal.	Nicolai
494	It isn't wise to laugh off prophecies, even if, admittedly, most don't come true.  The most important one of our age is the one by Apius Silanus made on his deathbed 800 years ago when he said the dark brother would rise again in the shadow of the light brother's sunset.  That sounds an awful lot like our King Roland and his wicked brother Archibald, doesn't it?	Prophecies
495	Lady Fleise is the Queen of the Merchants, and she has built a huge fortune by controlling shipping prices.	Loretta Fleise
496	Alamos is the home of many researching sorcerers and their magyar guards.  Rumor has it the sorcerers there study summoning spells, but no one is brave enough to go there and ask.	Alamos
497	If you're ever facing a horde of small monsters, try using the Ice Blast spell on them.  It explodes into dozens of tiny shards of ice that bounce around and slice your enemies to ribbons.  Because it will bounce off the walls, it works even better indoors.  Make sure you cast it far away from yourself, or it will hit you, too.	Ice Blast
498	If you're going to be teleporting around everywhere, it's important to keep good maps to avoid getting lost.	Maps
499	Light magic is the strongest magic in the world that doesn't bite you for trying to use it.  Dark magic can work offensive miracles, but often as not there's a price to pay for using it.  Also, many of the most destructive dark magics hurt the caster at the same time it hurts the enemy.	Light Magic
500	Pipe music seems to have a strange effect on rats and children.  At least it does when I use my best pipe.  They follow you everywhere!  	Rats and Children
501	I've never made it to Star Island, but I've seen the statues outside.  No one has ever come back from a trip to the island, and I suspect the statues are the transformed people that have made it to the island and discovered some terrible secret there.	Star Island
502	For sea battles, there's nothing like a trident for dealing with enemies.  The trident works underwater, or from the surface into the water.  Most weapons can't cut through the water well, but a trident stabs right through it.	Tridents
503	Rumors abound that the council actually guards a cache of equipment from before the Silence.  I don't believe it, though.  Wouldn't the council have used this equipment against the devils, or even in the Succession War if it were true?	Council's Cache
504	Here, let me see your palm…<pointing at a line on your hand> Ah.  Well, just as I suspected.  You're going to die.  Soon, I'll warrant.	Palm Reading
505	A dagger or knife is the most useful weapon in the world.  You can use it for a variety of tasks, from cooking to carving to lock picking (in a pinch).  Plus, as you become more and more skilled, you can use one in either hand and even strike vital locations on enemies with precise attacks.	Daggers
506	If ever there was a snake's nest of politics and religion, it was Karigor.  Karigor is a small island southeast of the 'bootleg' that New Sorpigal is situated on.  The twin rival Churches of the Sun and the Moon were founded there, and fought the longest war the world has ever seen until they managed to destroy one another about 200 years ago.  Their artifacts of power are scattered around the world.	Karigor
507	The Temple of Baa is full of insane cultists bent on world domination!  Their evil is everywhere, and they're out to get you and me!  Our only chance of escape is to kill their leader, Wilbur Humphrey, before he poisons the ear of the prince any longer!	Baa
508	A bandit that prowls up north, he is notorious for collecting 'protection' from merchants.  He has a good racket, but I'm not sure how long it'll last before someone does him in.	The Prince of Thieves
509	Don't tell anyone I said this, but people are saying the Ironfists have lost the Mandate of Heaven.  What else could cause all the storms and floods and disasters?  These are signs of heavenly wrath, mark my words!	Mandate of Heaven
510	With all of the troubles that are going on, I'm certainly glad to be protected by my lord!  Other people might have to worry about their well-being, but all I have to focus on is the work that must be done.	Protection
511	Gauntlets are more an armorer's specialty than a tailor's, but I can tell you that the best stuff is available in the armorsmith shops of the far north.  The finest of these magical gauntlets are almost as easy to wear as a soft glove, yet protect every bit as well as the hardest plate gauntlets.	Gauntlets
512	As much as I hate being a lowly laborer, I'd much rather be me than any of the Ironfists.  Troubles seem to follow them like ants at a picnic.  I lead a simple but happy life… better that than to be a miserable noble.	Ironfists
513	There's been a lot of troop movement, these days.  All these soldiers keep walking over my fields!  Now you tell me– what do you think happens when an entire army walks over your crops?  Yes, that's right!  Financial ruin!	Armies
514	Fortunately there are a lot of taverns and inns around; they keep me busy making casks for them.  You can find an inn almost anywhere.	Taverns
515	It's tough being a potter these days– there's no reason making it harder on yourself.  Always go to market knowing what prices should be, and make sure you come armed with your wits!  Someone without any merchant skill is likely to get bad bargains.	Markets
516	If you're planning on staying up north for very long, make sure you pack warm clothes.  It never seems to stop snowing up there.	Frozen Highlands
517	Dragonhide is the best material to use when making any shoe, belt, or boot.  It is supple, yet tough and resistant to the elements.	Dragonhide
518	With all the practice I have digging, I should go to the islands in the bay and dig for pirate treasure.	Pirate Treasure
519	Well, with all this bad weather going on, at least the wind is good for me.  I have two windmills, and a little wind goes a long way to saving me a lot of money on labor costs!	Wind
520	Perhaps I should move to Regna.  They have the largest navy in the world.  I could easily adapt to shipbuilding.  I mean, wood is wood, right?	Regna
521	Gems can be worth quite a bit of money, so don't get rid of them or sell them cheap!	Gems
522	"Why didn't the skeleton cross the road?

He didn't have the guts!"	Joke of the Day
523	Tanning is a disgusting job.  That's why I trap instead of tan.  	Tanning
524	I hate to be begging like this, but the injuries I sustained in the Succession War prevent me from doing most labor. 	Succession War
525	Don't laugh, but I heard that giant flying bloodsuckers are responsible for killing the cows in the New Sorpigal area.  Gods preserve us!	Bloodsuckers
526	Scattered about the lands are shrines.  I wonder what they're dedicated to and who worships at them?	Shrines
527	I've scribed some spell books for a number of sorcerers, including Albert Newton.  He's my best customer, as a matter of fact.  He sells the most complex spells to the Guilds of Light and Dark based somewhere in the west, probably near Blackshire.	Books
528	This Church focused on worshipping the heavens.  The conflict between the Churches of the Sun and Moon was pointless and wasteful.  We're all fortunate they're both gone.	Church of the Moon
529	Better than digging ditches.  Besides, someone has to keep the machinery of state moving!	Pushing Paper
530	Do I look bored to you?  I'm not, of course.  Acting like you're asleep is an old guard's trick. 	Sleeping
531	You can tell that Archibald's an Ironfist– he has the trademark bad luck.  Not only did his bid for power fail, now he's a statue in the royal library.  At least he gets to spend the rest of his days in the castle.	Archibald
532	This Mandate of Heaven nonsense really has the potential to start up some serious trouble.  If someone doesn't figure out what is going on with these disasters soon, the kingdom is going to fall apart!	Mandate Nonsense
533	If you're ever in need of healing and you don't have enough money to pay those sharks at the regular temples, why not visit a Temple of Baa?  They're healing people for free!	Free Healing
534	I wish I was Nicolai!  He's still a kid, but I bet no one tells him what to do!  He can do whatever he wants because he's the king.  Not like me, everyone tells me what to do.	Nicolai
535 W	Sometimes you can tell that a weapon is heavily enchanted just by looking at it.  If it's heavy and glitters a lot, it's expensive, and probably very powerful.	Magic Weapons
536	Don't overlook the defensive value of a good shield.  Yeah, I know a two-handed weapon hits a lot harder, but what do you do if you miss, or if that monster just doesn't go down on the first swing?  That's when a good shield comes into play.  It'll save your life one day, mark my words!	Shields
537	Statistics show that most items are broken when the wielder or wearer falls unconscious from damage, or where a monster has a particularly bruising blow to deliver.  The single best way to prevent broken items is to just not be knocked unconscious.  Get healed before it's too late.	Broken Items
538	Most items you find will boost or enhance some basic characteristic about you, but a few will have a more complex effect.  It is these that are truly valuable, and their names are usually in the form of 'item of ' as in wand of lightning bolts.	Magic Abilities
539	There is an island southwest of Enroth where people say is the headquarters of the Temple of Baa.  Why they would pick such a remote location for such a popular religion is beyond me, though.	Volcanic Island
540	Rumor has it the westernmost parts of the Frozen Highlands are overrun with powerful creatures.  Maybe even dragons!	Frozen Highlands
541	Not anymore it isn't!  Since the devils came, Paradise Valley is a barren wasteland infested with hundreds of devils.  No one goes in there and survives!	Paradise Valley
542	King Roland keeps his own personal royal yacht, the Queen Catherine, in a lake just west of Castle Ironfist.  She is a mighty ship, capable of going nearly anywhere quickly, but only the king or the regent can give permission for someone to use her.	The Royal Yacht
543	Many small islands fill Bootleg Bay.  I've heard rumors of temples on the islands, and even pirate hideouts!  I've never seen either, but I can imagine the amount of treasure a pirate would have accumulated.	Bootleg Bay
544	It is important to raise someone from the dead as soon as possible, if you intend to do it.  If you take too long, death may require more than one spell to fix.  This can get expensive!	Death
545	It's possible to create more complicated potions by mixing the simple potions together to create compound potions.  Compound potions are stronger than simple potions and have slightly different effects.	Alchemy Basics
546	Simple potions combine to create compound potions.  Orange potions temporarily boost your armor class, green potions temporarily boost your resistances, and purple potions serve as antidotes to any poison.	Advanced Alchemy
547	Everyone has a spell book, but many lack the ability to fill it with even the simplest of spells.  If you can somehow get a spell into your spell book, you can cast it as long as you have enough spell power.	Learning Spells
548	A cunning woman– it's easy to forget how intelligent she is when dealing with her.  Aside from gaining vast amounts of wealth, she's mastered several skills, and is associated with a few of the druidic orders of the north.	Loretta Fleise
549	Pay attention to the advantages of small, quick weapons.  If you're good enough with them, you can attack twice as often as you could with a larger, heavier weapon.	Initiative
550	Some warriors prefer to specialize in one weapon above all others.  This training makes them incredible fighters, but it has a few weaknesses.  They may not be able to find an awesome weapon of the type they've specialized in, or they may be fighting against an opponent that is more resistant to their type of attacks.  Specialists are very good, but they shouldn't travel alone.	Specialization
551	Be sure to use spells of protection when you have them.  They can really reduce the heartache of being reduced to ash by dragon fire or electrocuted by enemy sorcerer lightning attacks.	Spells of protection
552	A powerful sorcerer, Agar tried in vain to create powerful creatures as his slaves so that he could conquer Enroth.  His minions were either too stupid to be of use, or too smart to be controlled.	Agar
553	Corlagon took Terrax's Crystal to his estate for studying when he began learning the Necromantic arts.  I imagine the crystal is still there.	Terrax's Crystal
554	Diplomacy is the skill that makes people feel more favorable towards you.  If you must speak with someone who doesn't seem to like you, make sure that you use your most diplomatic person to do the talking.	Diplomacy
555	I wish I knew who Abdul is.  His shops consistently offer low prices– he must be a bandit trying to launder money.  I can't see any other reason to have the low prices he does.	Abdul
556	I'm certain the devils destroyed the town of Sweet Water!  It was the most northwestern town in Enroth, and certainly one of the most beautiful.  Not many people made it out that way to visit, but now you don't hear anything about the place.  	Sweet Water
557	There are two major thief guilds in the land.  One, the 'sanctioned' one, can be found in some of the major towns in the kingdom.  The other, guild is called the Shadow Guild.  They are much more violent and cruel than the sanctioned guilds, and I'm sure the king would put them down if he had the time.	Thief Guilds
558	The lords themselves are too busy to handle most affairs of state, so they have council members that attend the High Council in Free Haven for them.  Each lord has one council member, and these six people make most of the laws of the state, in the names of their respective lords.	Council Members
559	Plate armor is, of course, the strongest kind of armor available.  There is a legendary suit of armor called Zeus, and it can imbue its wearer with extraordinary strength, but it doesn’t do much for the personality.  	Magic Armor
560	I've heard rumors that Zoltan Phelps lost a valuable possession to a group of bandits.  If he had taken proper precautions and had used my services, that wouldn't have happened.	Jerrad
561	I know I charge a lot to travel with, but I'm worth it!  If you keep me around, I'll tell you words of wisdom you'll not soon hear from anyone else.  For instance, did you know that a fool and his money are soon parted?	A Fool's services
562	It's a pity the Temple in Free Haven was destroyed in the fire.  That temple had the most magnificent altar.  The clerics there could raise people from the dead, even from just ashes!	Temple in Free Haven
563	The people who hire me often ask me to carry all kinds of junk I know they can do without.  Sorcerers have got to be the worst.  Pipes, tubes, glassware, junk– the works.  Just keep the best stuff with you and sell all that old junk!  But remember that selling to a general store will always get the worst prices.	Pack Rats
564	Resting while poisoned or diseased is not advisable.  You stand a good chance of never waking from a rest while under these conditions.  You should get yourself healed of the poison or disease before resting.	Resting
565	The 'Imperial Regnan Navy' has been on a taxation spree recently, and this has raised the cost of sea travel and transportation tremendously.  Many businessmen simply cannot afford to pay insurance on their goods any longer.  Somebody has to do something about the troublesome Regnans.	Pirates
566	Due to the recent problems, people aren't spending as much money as they used to.  I'm afraid the economy is going to suffer quite a bit from this, and everyone will soon feel it.	Economy
567	Wise men are saying they think the Temple of Baa is behind all the disasters that have been happening recently.  I think they're probably right.  The temple offers free healing, but you should think twice before using it– people are suspicious of the temple, and you'll get a bad reputation for having anything to do with them.	Evil Temples
568	I've heard of fountains with magical waters that are supposed to exist in the lands.  I wish I could find one of these fountains; I'd love to prepare a meal with some magical water.	Fountains
569	You don't need to worry about this as much if you travel using the stagecoaches, but if you walk, be sure to rest on grass.  It's a lot more comfortable, and your travelling resources won't get used up as fast as if you try to sleep in the middle of the road.	Resting
570	I don't understand why there aren't any major Temples of Baa in or around any of the major cities or castles.  For some reason they all seem to be built in more remote places.	Temples of Baa
571	Most people don't know about it, but the Dragon Towers posted near each of the towns are quite dangerous to students of air.  They're meant to shoot down flying monsters, but they'll also shoot at flying sorcerers.  They shot at me, once, and I'm lucky to be alive to tell this tale!	Dragon Towers
572	King Roland keeps his own personal royal yacht, the Queen Catherine, in a lake just west of Castle Ironfist.  She is a mighty ship, capable of going nearly anywhere quickly, but only the king or the regent can give permission for someone to use her.	The Royal Yacht
573	Terrax was Enroth's first arch mage, and a sorcerer of incredible power.  He developed the foundations for elemental magic, and made the first basic discoveries into light and dark magic.  His crystal is said to hold some of the highest magical secrets.	Terrax
574	The Town Portal spell is the single best spell for travelling huge distances in Enroth.  Masters of water have firm control over where they go and when they can cast this spell.  It's expensive to learn, but well worth your while!	Town Portal
575	If you can't learn to retreat, Guardian Angel at least provides a means of escape from certain death.  Anytime you explore a dangerous area, it's best to have this spell cast, just in case.	Guardian Angel
576	The Temple of Baa has been giving a bad name to all religion.  People are beginning to think they're behind these disasters, and I'm beginning to agree.  The gods must surely be angry with their disgusting heresies!	False Prophets
577	Can't count on savage beasts to be soothed by music.  That whole story about controlling beasts with music is just a myth.  I have scars to prove it!	Savage Beasts
578	Castle Darkmoor, in the deepest part of the Mire of the Damned, houses the most powerful undead anywhere in the world.  That's how the rumor goes, anyway.  I've never actually seen the place, much less been inside of it.  I've made it out of the mire alive, though.  Not many people can say that.	Darkmoor
579	I know it sounds bad, but the best job I ever had was Imperial Tax Collector for his Highness, Hareck IX.  We collected tax on a lot of ships, and good old Hareck always let us keep some of the booty– er, I mean proceeds.  <sighs> Yep.  Those were the days!	Imperial Taxation
580	The knight's Lord!  Osric's mastered everything there is in combat, from individual fighting to the logistics of siege warfare.  No one is a match for him in a battle!	Osric Temper
581	I can see the mark of doom about your face!  It is like a cloud that hangs just above your head, clouding your features and casting a shadow over your future.  Great and terrible adventures await you, my friend!	Doom!
582	The priests of Baa are nice, even to gypsies.  You can tell a priest of Baa from the decorative cloaks they wear.	Baa Cloaks
583	If someone won't talk to you, and begging doesn’t seem to be working, try a good, hefty bribe.  Gold loosens a tongue faster than charity.	Bribes
584	Everyone wonders what secrets the ancient pyramid in Dragonsand holds.  Well, I know.  I went there under the protection of the King of the Dragons, and entered the pyramid.  It's the storehouse for all of the dragons' treasure!  It's packed to the brim with gold and artifacts.  Ahh, just the memory of the beauty brings a tear to my eye.	Pyramid
585	Gah!  Nothing has ruined my livelihood more than the banks.  Because it's nearly impossible to break into them, everyone stores all of their valuables there.  I can't find anything decent to take anymore.	Banks
586	It's a shame about the king, what with his disappearance and all.  He must have done something to offend heaven to be so unlucky.  I guess he's getting what he deserves.	King Roland
587	I wish I was a hero with a sword and shield, instead of a peasant with a plow.	Adventurer
588	Erik Applegate is the tailor most famous for working with alchemists to enchant belts.  Applegate has been working at this task for a few decades, now, and you can expect they've turned out some amazing stuff.  	Belts
589	I ate some poppysnaps once.  They made me so sick I missed a day's work.	Widoweeps Berries
590	I hear there's a terrible blight infecting crops and plants in the west.  If it spreads here, I'll be ruined!	The Blight
591	With the destruction of Blackwoode and the stand-off in the Timber War, where am I going to get wood to keep making barrels?	Wood
592	You can find the shells of all these little animals along the beach and in the rivers when you're looking for good clay.  They must be very old.  There's a lot of shellfish in the Free Haven Harbor.  Oysters, I think.  So many of them, they clutter up all my good clay!	Fossils
593	Fancy hats and pretty shirts are nice, but if you're going to be in combat you're better off with armor and a helmet.	Clothes
594	Have you ever heard of the legendary pair of boots called Hermes?  It's said that the boots can boost their wearer's speed to godlike levels.  I'd love to see that someday!	Hermes
595	I'm not nearly as skilled as some of the people around here.  If I could cast spells, or heal, or fix things, more people would want to hire me.  Who needs ditches dug anymore?	Skills
596	While the storms have been a big help with the windmills, the water mills are suffering from all the cold weather.  Every time the streams freeze up, no work gets done at the water mills.	Water Mills
597	The last Heavenly Forge stopped working about 130 years after the Silence.  No one has ever been able to repair the Forges.	Heavenly Forges
598	They say that the streets of Kalimar, the capitol city of Karigor, are made of fine jade, and the buildings all use it too.  Sounds beautiful, doesn't it?	Jade
599	Did you hear about the orc ventriloquist whose dummy quit to find a new partner?	Joke of the Day
600	There's lots of ways of laying a trap that's sure to go off when someone opens a box or steps on a certain spot on the ground.  You'd do well to have a little skill in disarming traps if you're going to go adventuring.  Could save your life one day, you know.	Traps
601	Have pity on a poor soul and spare a few coins!  The gods will favor you if you do.	Donations
602	Ever try sneaking up on a cow in the middle of the night?  They sleep standing up.  You can knock them over by just pushing hard.  Boy, that is one surprised cow when it wakes up!	Cow Tipping
603	Who's Ivan Seling?  Only the greatest bow craftsman ever!  I wish I had a bow he made.  No one could be a better hunter than I!  Unfortunately, his bows have become very rare since the Timber Wars.	Ivan Seling
604	Given the lousy selling price of spell scrolls, I would just hold on to them and use them in emergencies.  Often they are scribed at a very high skill level, so you may find their use worthwhile.	Scrolls
605	Roland's death is proof that the Ironfist line has lost the Mandate of Heaven.  It's time Enroth had new rulers!	Roland
606	Rubber for my stamps comes from southern Erathia's more tropical climate.  There's a plant that grows there that saves clerks 'round the world a lot of repetitive writing!	Rubber Stamps
607	I wish I had the opportunity to go on Roland's expedition.  Better to take action and fight bravely against the enemy than to stand around and wait for trouble.	Roland
608	I can't believe the strange weather we've been having lately.  I think I might just start betting on the weather.  I could probably make a killing!	Weather
609	The king's disappearance is a disaster.  I know that it is hard to feel sympathy for the nobility, but an orderly kingdom is in everyone's best interests.  Losing the king doesn't create order, and there is no one who could possibly replace him without so much bloodshed it would make the Succession Wars look like a schoolgirl slap fight!	The King
610	Once you join the Temple of Baa, you'll be issued temple cloaks and be allowed to visit the Superior Temple of Baa located just east of Castle Kriegspire.  Everyone's going to join us sooner or later, so why wait?  The Superior Temple is quite a sight!	Superior Temple
611	My mother told me that if I do bad things, the devils will come and get me!	Devils
612 T	Don't let the name fool you:  Abdul's discount stores offer really great quality for low, low prices.  He also didn't pay me to say that on Thursdays.  Honest.	Abdul's Discounts
613	Always have your best merchant do the talking when you buy and sell stuff through merchants.  If they can make a few more gold pieces off an unwary customer, not a one of them will hesitate, believe you me!	Merchants
614	Many unusual magical effects occur during annual astrological events, such as the two solstices and equinoxes.  Eclipses, midnight, noon, comets; all these things can be magically significant.  The significant dates this year are:  March 20th, June 21st, September 23rd, and December 21st.	Equinoxes and Solstices
615	In the land of Enroth, the shades of black and white have special magical significance.  If an item or a potion is colored white, it usually means that it provides a powerful beneficial effect without any sort of negative side effect.  If it is black, it provides the most powerful of effects, but with some sort of unpleasant side effect.  Be careful!	Black and White
616	Everyone has heard of Abdul's chain of discount stores.  Well, he also has an island resort where the old and tired can be rejuvenated for a hefty fee.  They say that Abdul himself lives on his resort Island and rarely visits the mainland.	Abdul's Discount Island Resort
617	Druidic orders flourish in the grasslands near Silver Cove.  These druids will often arrange stone circles to perform ceremonies or worship nature.	Druids 
618	The mountains that make up the gap that leads to Paradise Valley are called the Sentinels.  Folk tales suggest they protected the valley from evil; now they serve as a warning to anyone foolish enough to want to enter.	Sentinels 
619	There are many islands that can only be reached with a combination of boat travel and the Walk on Water spell.  Many of them are inhabited by the most horrible of monsters, but often the finest treasures can be found on them.	Islands
620	Travel by boat isn't instantaneous; it takes time.  Don't forget to factor in your travel times if you're running on a deadline.	Boat Travel
621	There once was a temple built by Lord Stone in the city of Free Haven, but it was burned down by vandals a few years ago.  The quality of the altar there was so good that it permitted the priests to raise anyone from the dead, even eradicated bodies.	Free Haven's Temple
622	A low level body spell, First Aid is very efficient in terms of its casting cost, but slow.  If you have plenty of time, it's the best way to heal damage.	First Aid
623	The pinnacle of light spells, Divine Intervention does just that– calls for Eyla, goddess of healing, to intercede on your behalf and heal your group to full life.  Her price, a part of your life-force causing you to age a few years, is sometimes well worth her attention.	Divine Intervention
624	Training centers are the best way to increase your level, but they can get awfully expensive later on.  Personally, I recommend Abdul's Discount Training centers to avoid excessive training costs.	Training Centers
625	No teacher in the world can equal the Oracle in Free Haven.  The only catch is that to visit the Oracle, you need to have the unanimous approval of the High Council.	Oracle
626	One advantage of the sword and the dagger is that skilled users can wield a blade in their left hands instead of using a shield.  Even a fluff head like yourself should understand why that could help.	Combo weapons
627	I know how easy it is for us warriors to scoff at the weak mages out there, but they can make themselves useful at times.  Many of their spells can increase your fighting ability by making you faster, or hit better, or more resistant to damage.  As long as they can pull their own weight, mages make excellent travelling companions.	Magic
628	Travelling spells represent the most important class of spells for all magic-using people.  Not only do they let you get to places you couldn't get to without  magic, but they let you visit things like health and magic-boosting fountains in remote areas, and use those abilities in dangerous dungeons and castles where you need them.	Travelling Spells
629	Agar's 'finest' creations, these floating heads have surprising intelligence and great power at their command.  Their gaze is enough to put you to sleep.  Rumors abound of even more powerful eyes that can cause panic or even complete insanity.	Flying Eyes
630	A few Guilds of the Self exist in the lands.  Combining knowledge of mind, spirit, and body, these guilds offer a more generalized study than any of the individual guilds can offer.  Their knowledge of the individual schools isn't nearly as complete, however.	Self Magic Guilds
631	Don't let the name fool you:  Abdul's Discount stores offer really great quality for low, low prices.  He also didn't pay me to say that on Thursdays.  Honest.	Abdul's Discounts
632	In the north, businesses are controlled by a few monopolies that prevent competition by any means necessary, even by extortion.  The Shadow Guild and the Thieves' Guild have already started to clash over rights in areas like Silver Cove and Free Haven.	Shadow Guild
633	Take my word for it when I say the Mire is a bad place to find yourself at night.  The Necromancer's Guild 'retired' to the swamp after Archibald's defeat in the Succession War, and evidence of their handiwork is walking around the swamp freely.	Mire of the Damned
634	You can avoid a lengthy jail sentence for any crimes you've been committing by receiving forgiveness at the temples.  If you run into a guard before receiving forgiveness for significant crimes, you could be looking at a year in jail, or even longer.  	Jail Sentences
635	Many monsters won't reason with you, no matter how eloquently you phrase your requests.  You need to recognize hopelessly aggressive monsters and be rid of them as fast as possible.	Monsters
636	Many people don't really care for tinkers because we wander and do odd jobs that guilds would like to charge a lot for.  But you like me, don't you?	Undesirables
637	With all the troubles that have been going on, business has been great for me.  People have found the need to lock up their possessions to try and protect them from marauders or looters.  It's good to know I can give people at least a small sense of security in these dark times.	Danger
638	I bought a treasure map from this treasure map salesman I met awhile ago and it says the dread pirate captain Silveka buried his treasure under a tree on one of the  islands east of Free Haven.	Treasure Map
639	Loretta is my kind of person.  She makes her own luck, and it's almost always good.  She's got confidence, and that's something you can't just buy.  I'm sure that's the reason she's so successful: a confident, positive outlook.	Loretta Fleise
640	I'm sure you've seen the obelisks scattered around the Kingdom.  They say there's a riddle in them just waiting to be solved that shows where to find a great horde of buried treasure.  No one's ever done it, though.  At least, no one I've ever heard of.	Obelisks
641	Aye, I've worked in Osric's army before, tending camp and preparing food and cataloguing supplies.  He's a fair man, and an excellent leader.  He knows how to keep his troops motivated, let me tell you.	Osric Temper
642	There are only three certainties in life:  The first is death.  The second is taxes.  And the third is the fact that you'll hear that joke sooner or later.	Death and Taxes
643	Banks are a safe place to store money.  Unless you personally own a secure, guarded vault, your best bet is to put your money in a bank.  You don't collect interest on your money, but because the banks don't lend out money, you don't have to worry about losing it.	Banks
644	One of the few exports the Islands of Regna have going for them, besides piracy, is sugar, cocoa, and cinnamon.  If it weren't for those, I'd say we should ship the Temple of Baa over to Regna and let them sink all those islands!	Herbs from Regna
645	Different inns charge different amounts for the food they sell, but don't be fooled.  The more expensive food will generally last longer than the cheaper stuff.  It's important to have food that will last when you plan to be out for long periods of time.	Food Prices
646	I can't say I know much about travel over water, but from what I've heard, you can either take a ship to the islands, or Walk on Water to get there.  Ships all have complicated itineraries– be sure to ask the shipping company before you book passage when they do return voyages!	Island travel
647	It's a shame that Catherine was pulled away to her father's funeral so soon after Roland's death.  That poor woman has suffered too many tragedies too soon.  It's even sadder that she's leaving Nicolai here while she's gone.  He's too young to have to deal with all of this on top of the crises affecting the kingdom.	Catherine
648	The Necromancer's Guild first appeared publicly during Archibald's brief reign 10 years ago.  They were around before that, but they kept themselves secret, knowing people wouldn't appreciate them.  When Roland became king, he outlawed the guild and ordered the leaders arrested.  None of them stayed around long enough for that, though, and now they're nowhere to be found.	Necromancers
649	There are many islands that can only be reached with a combination of boat travel and the Walk on Water spell.  Many of them are inhabited by the most horrible of monsters, but often the finest treasures can be found on them.	Islands
650	Dragons are not only adept combatants, they are wily spell casters.  Few people appreciate the dragons' grasp of magic, and many cocky warriors find themselves unprepared for the dragons' true power.	Dragons
651	Erathia is out of even Town Portal's long range.  That continent is a full six week's worth of sea travel away.  There are a lot of islands and sub-continents between here and there, all of them filled with petty kingdoms and tribes looking to rob travelers of their valuables, their freedom, or their lives.	Erathia
652	I've seen a few devils in my travels, and they are fierce to behold.  I've had to rescue a few people from devil attacks, and I  was amazed at their coordination and prowess in combat.  They must have excellent training to be that proficient.	Devils
653	I fear the Night of Shooting Stars was an omen of the worst kind.  It didn't take long for our good king to disappear after that night, and for the Temple of Baa to arrive, did it?  And all this talk about devils in the west…these are evil omens indeed!	Night of Shooting Stars
654	Once I was hired by a noble to entertain him and his wife on Star Lake, playing music while they picnicked in a boat. When we approached the south end of the island at the center of the lake, we saw the most hideous beast– a woman with snakes for hair– on the shore of the island.  She took one look at my noble benefactors and they turned to stone before my eyes.  It was all I could do to row away before I joined them.	Medusas
655	Flight spells provide a way to get past mountains and walls and other such obstacles.  There is a limit on how high you can fly with the Fly spell, though.  Some peaks rise too high to pass with magical flying.	Flight Spells
656	Hareck IX has got to be the best leader in the world.  Not only is he the only Emperor in the world, he's the only leader I've ever heard of that does common work like the rest of his people.  Like when there's taxes to be collected on shipping, Hareck's right there with the rest of us.  Boarding, fighting, cursing, drinking, whatever.  Hareck's a real down to earth kind of Emperor.	Hareck IX
657	Every squire knows that a weapon is of no use broken.  Every warrior should know how to repair his own equipment, or be at the whim of the smiths' schedules.  Knowing how to repair your weapon is part of mastering your weapon.	Repairing
658	Of all the malicious mischief makers in the world, Necromancers are by far the worst.  Their 'science' is very new, and they know just enough to get themselves and the rest of the world in trouble.	Ghosts
659	Resting revives your body and mind.  Camping gives you a chance to relax, talk, celebrate– to just unwind a little and rest off some of the stress and worry of the remainder of the day.  	Resting
660	A wise negotiator once said, 'On whether 'tis better to be loved or to be feared, choose both.  But if a choice between the two must be made, choose fear.'– Words to live by, my friend.  Words to live by.	Fear and Love
661	Up north, it's not uncommon for wealthy businessmen to preserve their position in the market by hiring thugs to trim their competition.  Trade wars can become quite literally wars.  It's best to not get involved in any merchant disputes.	Organized Crime
662	Some of the best perception and lock-picking teachers hang out in Thieves' Guilds.	Thieves' Guilds
663	Even if King Roland did something bad to cause heaven to abandon him, I don't suppose that his son Nicolai deserves it.  After all, he's only ten years old.  Maybe heaven will smile upon him and give him heaven's mandate to rule wisely.  That would be nice.	Nicolai Ironfist
664	I can't leave the towns and castles without some bandit taking away what little money I actually manage to save.  Why can't the guards do something about all the brigands?	Bandits
665	Indigo from Regna was cut off a decade ago when the king outlawed trade with that pirate kingdom.  I can understand why he did that, but I sure am tired of the indigo shortage.  I can't dye anything blue or purple!	Indigo
666	What do you want from me?  I'm just a worker; I'm not here to amuse you.	Entertainment
667	It sure has been raining a lot, lately.  It would be terrible if the clouds ran out of rain and the rivers ran dry because all the water had been used up during these storms.  If the rivers all ran dry, I'd be ruined!	Rivers
668	Chests and boxes aren't the only things that can hold treasure.  Barrels can also hold valuables, so don't forget to search them, too.	Barrels
669	Shipping has slowed from Erathia, which is where I get all the paints I need for my work.  That's the land the queen comes from.  I wonder if there's a problem over there?	Paints
670	I don't know who makes them, but every Baa priest has a cloak with the symbol of Baa on it.  I wish I had the job of making all those cloaks, I'd be rich!	Baa Cloaks
671	History is the sound of soft-soled slippers going down the stairs while hobnail boots climb up the stairs.	Hobnail Boots
672	I sure wish I could learn to do something other than dig ditches, but I'm just not bright enough.	Promotion
673	Flour's been going bad early this year, even though it's properly stored in sealed containers.  I wonder what's going on?	Flour
674	Don't forget that you can store things in cabinets.  Chests aren't the only places to keep your treasure.	Cabinets
675	The roads of Enroth are made of flagstones from the hills near Kriegspire.  They were placed long ago by the people who first settled Enroth, and those first roads have never eroded or decayed in any way.  Very odd.	Flagstones
676	"What do you call a jittery sorceress?

A twitch!"	Joke of the Day
677	Dark days are upon us, mark my words!  Never have I seen so many monsters and so little game.	Dark Days
678	Nothing is worse than trying to beg near Silver Cove.  All the people there are so greedy!	Silver Cove
679	The Shadow Guild is the best place to find a buyer willing to take stolen cattle.  There's nothing they won't do!  They're great, AND they charge less than the regular Thieves' Guild.  You gotta try them out!	Underworld
680	With the lack of animals and all the problems lately, I should probably just become a bounty hunter.  I could probably make a fortune tracking down all the lawbreakers.	Bounty Hunter
681	The most demanding master to have to work for is Osric Temper.  No one else shouts as much, or talks as quickly during a dictation.  I will say this though– of all the Lords, he is the only that seems to be on top of the devil situation we all know is so serious.  Unpleasant to work for to be sure, but he has the interests of the kingdom at heart.	Dictation
682	Have you spoken with Baa today?  Let me help you come to grips with your problems and show you a better way; it will only take a little of your time.	Baa
683	A lot of people complain about taxes, but I just want to say I like them.  How could clerk's offices function without tax money?  How would people get permits and licenses without us?	Taxes
684	The towers outside the towns shoot at flying creatures that we'd normally have a difficult time handling.	Dragon Towers
685	Most people don't have confidence in Nicolai.  I'll bet you 3 to 1 odds that he gets thrown out before his next birthday.  What'd ya say?	Ironfist Dynasty
686	I do hope that the queen returns from her trip to her homeland soon.  Even if she is a foreign queen she will supply some semblance of order to our besieged kingdom.	Queen Catherine
687	No one knows where the Supreme Temple of Baa is, but I've heard only full-fledged priests and high temple officials are allowed to visit.	Supreme Temple
688	Do goblins have names?  Or families?  Why are they evil?	Goblins
689 F	The best all around weapon shop in Enroth is the Knight's Paradise, run by Eric Regent.  You can't buy better weapons anywhere else in the kingdom. 	Knight's Paradise
690	You know, metal for arms and armor used to be a lot cheaper before Snergle wrested the dwarven throne away from Rocklin, the old King of the Dwarves.  Sure would be nice if someone fixed Snergle's wagon.	Dwarves
691	Once you are a member of a particular type of magic guild, you won't need to keep buying membership into different branches of the same guild.  A member of the Guild of Fire, for instance, need not buy membership in another Fire Guild in order to take advantage of their services.	Magic Guilds
692	Albert Newton is the Lord of Mist, and he is truly the patron of all who hold dear the mystical arts.  If you have a question about magic, Mist is where you should look for an answer.	The Island of Mist
693	Beware travel in the swamps south of Castle Temper.  The undead are said to roam about freely, unafraid of the living or the sun.	Swamps
694	I never seen one, but I've heard stories of magical portals– doorways– that lead instantly from one part of Enroth to another.  That would take all the fun out of travelling, wouldn't it?	Magic Portals
695	Aptly named, Dragonsand is full of both dragons and sand.  I think the most powerful dragons are more than a match for the devils, or the devils would have long ago taken over the desert.	Dragonsand
696	It is said that one of the islands east of Free Haven hides the buried treasure of Silveka the pirate.  Now, I know these stories are a dime dozen, but I swear this one is true!  If only the map could be found…	Buried Treasure
697	The Isle of the Hermit is a fairly large volcanic isle in the southwest of Enroth. No one goes there and it's more barren than even the wastelands.  It was named when Lord Terrance made a joke about a hermit living there to get away from it all.	Isle of the Hermit
698	All of the Necromancers in the Kingdom have been banished, happily, except the ones who took their black art too far and became liches.     The worst of those liches, Archibald's former general Lord Corlagon, has taken up residence in the south eastern portion of the Mire of the Damned.	Necromancy
699	It IS possible to combine compound potions with simple or compound potions to try and make complex potions.  Though complex potions are the strongest you can make, the process is dangerous.  Mixing the wrong potions can cause violent reactions and set off dangerous explosions.	Alchemy Basics
700	I know only one formula for a complex potion– the combination of a compound potion with either a simple or compound potion.  Mix a potion of resistance with a potion of cure poison, then take that potion and mix it with a potion of protection, and you end up with a potion of divine cure.	Advanced Alchemy
701	Thief and Mercenary Guilds are the places you go to learn all kinds of skills.  Different guilds teach different skills, so if one doesn't have what you're looking for, try the guilds in a different town.	Thief and Mercenary Guilds
702	Quests aren't anything magical, they're simply opportunities...  Opportunities to learn a great deal or to make a great deal of money.  Try not to pass up the chances you get.	Quests
703	Try to equip everyone in your group with a bow, crossbow, or some other ranged weapon.  You can do a lot of damage to an opponent as they approach you, and ranged weapons let you attack flying creatures that otherwise couldn't be hurt.	Bows
704	Most warriors like to train in a variety of weapons.  Usually, one weapon is trained higher than the others, but few are ignored.  This provides great flexibility in combat, because you can use the weapon that is most effective against the enemy you face.	Generalization
705	Some monsters are resistant to nearly all magic spells.  If you run into one of these monsters, don't despair– use your magic to heal your warriors and strengthen their blows.	Magic resistance
706	Albert Newton is a brilliant magical researcher, but his research always seems to take a long time to complete.  He certainly knows quite a bit about sorcerers and their magics, however.  If you have any questions about that, he's the person to talk to.	Albert Newton
707	I've heard tales of a powerful magical staff that boosts your magical reserves and can strike as swiftly as the wind itself. 	Magical Staves
708	General stores will buy  nearly anything, but give terrible prices.  If a general store is the only store around and you need to sell something fast, go ahead and use it.  But if it can wait, you'll do better selling something to a more specific store.	General Stores
709	Not all shops are the same!  Some stores offer lowly goods, while shops in other towns have excellent wares for sale.  You'll need to look around and find the good shops for yourself, but keep in mind:  You get what you pay for.  Great equipment never comes cheap.	Stores
710	This foul place is the center of the most serious crimes against nature the Necromancer's Guild has been committing.  My firm scout's advice is to avoid, avoid, avoid!	Castle Darkmoor
711	City councils are always looking for people to take care of local jobs for them.  If you need a little extra cash, try dropping by and asking about work.  There's a good chance they'll have something for you.	City Councils
712	Your reputation affects how people deal with you.  Most people aren't going to trust you or confide in you if your reputation isn't good.  You'll only find friends from thieves and the like, and do you really want them as friends?  You'll need to help others and follow the laws to bolster your reputation.	Reputation
713	Try to stay close to chimney sweeps– they're good luck!	Chimney Sweeps
714	Apparently there's a new Thieves' Guild called the Shadow Guild that's competing with the established guilds across the lands.	Thieves' Guild
715	I just bought the deed to a bridge spanning the White Forest River.  It's a toll bridge!  Soon I'll be rich as my professional bridge managers make money from the tolls they charge and put it in my bank account!	Bridge Deed
716	I can never get work in Castle Ironfist.  I don't understand why.  It's almost as though they don't want people crawling around the castle.  Are they hiding something?	Castle Ironfist 
717	I travel with all kinds of people, carrying heavy loads from one place to the other.  I tell you though, unless you're powerful, your load will be lightened for you by all the bandits on the roads.  Stay off the roads between cities if you know what's good for you.	Roads
718	Many inns are scattered across Enroth, and I believe there are even a few that eke out a meager existence in the western reaches.  These provide the easiest way to get food and the safest rest.	Inns
719	Ever notice how the cost of Resurrection at a temple is exactly equal to all the gold you had with you when you died?	Resurrection Bills
720	If you find a great piece of equipment for a low price, by all means buy it.  You'll be able to sell it later for a profit, and maybe even get some use out of it until then.  	Investing
721	I've cooked a lot of fish in my day, but never have I cooked one of the deadly eels that infest the waters north of Silver Cove.  I'd love a chance to do it, but not many people tangle with the eels and live.  But, oh, for a taste!  They say the eels are the best delicacy the world has to offer!	Fish
722	Never run out of food!  You don't gain any benefit from rest when you have no food, and it's very easy to starve to death in the wilderness if you have no food.	Food Supply
723	Somewhere out there is a set of horseshoes that protect your horses' hooves perfectly, and never lets them get tired!  The places you could go if you had horses with those qualities!  Oh, well.  It's just a legend, most likely.	Horseshoes
724	Soon after Archibald's defeat, I was able to peek into the Royal Library after one of my many performances at Castle Ironfist.  Inside, I saw a statue of Archibald in magnificent detail.  He must have had the statue made when he thought he was going to win his insurrection, and Roland's kept it as some sort of memento.	Archibald Statue
725	Every spell caster knows, or should know, that certain spells and magical effects occur around dawn and dusk.  For instance, no Divine Intervention is possible at any other time.	Dawn and Dusk
726	It is said that one of the islands east of Free Haven hides the buried treasure of Silveka the pirate.  Now, I know these stories are a dime dozen, but I swear this one is true!  If only the map could be found…	Buried Treasure
727	The old Dragon Towers were built to protect the towns from flying creatures, but they'll shoot down anything within their range that's flying.	Dragon Towers
728	Though the Church of the Moon celebrated the darker side of human nature, it is not to say that good could not come of their evil, just as evil came of the Church of the Sun's good.  During their heyday, the Church managed to create artifacts of great power– the Doomsday Cloaks.  If you ever find one, don't throw it away!  They're all very powerful and valuable.	Church of the Moon
729	A great spell when running errands, Lloyd's Beacon allows you to set up beacons that you can teleport back to.  Though the beacons don't last forever, with proper planning they last long enough to get the job done.	Lloyd's Beacon
730	Making a healing potion is a simple matter, if you have ingredients.  All you need are widoweeps berries and a flask with water.  Just mix the berries with the water, and…Voila!  Instant healing potion!  If you don't have any water handy, you can just eat the berries directly, but the effect isn't as strong.	Healing Potions
731	Sweet Water was an excellent venue for my music before the Night of Shooting Stars.  Now the road to that town is infested with devils, and they say the town is no more.	Ruin of Sweet Water
732	The Isle of the Hermit, named by Lord Terrance for its remoteness, is difficult to travel to because of the turbulent waters south of Enroth.	Isle of the Hermit
733	Lots of people would like to invade Regna and take her spices, her metal, and her treasures.  The only thing that's kept Regna free all these years is her attention to metal smithing science and her arms sales to all the countries of the world.  Everyone criticizes Regna for that, but everyone buys Regnan weapons.  Talkin' outta both sides of their mouth, that's what those hypocrites do!	Regnan smithies
734	I wish I could have been part of Roland's expedition!  There's true bravery– how glorious that troop must have looked, armor and weapons gleaming in the sun.  Better to die valiantly in the battlefield with your lord, then to expire in the night, cold and alone.	Roland's Expedition
735	Astrology is often sneered at, but I tell you it's very real and important.  The most significant astrological event recently was that shooting star that fell from the sky out of Sagittarius.  It portends upheaval, disaster, and opportunity for the entire world.	Astrology
736	Merchants in the northeast aren't above hiring people to make sure that their competition isn't too competitive.  We try to avoid those areas and not get involved with any of the local petty struggles.	Organized Crime
737	Listen to the way a person greets you to get an idea how to deal with them, should they prove uncooperative.  You'll find that many people that share similar interests and professions will have the same attitude toward your choice of begging, bribing, or threatening them.	Listening
738	Don't tell anyone I told you this, but Roland isn't dead.  He simply needed a vacation from all of the pressures of being king, and he's hiding away on Abdul's Resort Isle under a false name.	Roland
739	To keep people like me away from their things, people will often trap their chests. 	Disarm Traps
740	Weather sure has been strange lately.  Why, last June it snowed!  Snow in June, who'd ever have guessed?  It is an ill omen, snow in summertime.	Weather
741	Despite all of my problems, at least the Temple of Baa cares about me and helps me out.  Not like the government we have now.	Temple of Baa
742	Boots are the cobbler's domain, and I don't know much about them, but I will say that you shouldn't overlook their usefulness.  They can go a long way to adding to your overall personal protection in battle.  Everyone should wear boots.	Boots
743	I imagine much of my work in the near future will be digging the graves of the people killed by the devils.	Graves
744	I can't even begin to tell you how awful produce prices have been in the market, recently.  I think someone's artificially fixing the prices low!  If this goes on much longer I'll be ruined!	Produce Prices
745	Be careful drinking liquids left in barrels; you never know how long it's been sitting there.  You could get sick doing something like that.	Liquids
746	The wheel spins in the most fascinating ways.  Sometimes I think that if everyone would take a little time out and watch the wheel spin, they would calm down, and be less likely to fight with one another.  But no one will listen to me.  I'm just a lowly potter.	Spinning Patterns
747	It's one thing to make the clothes, but the beauty usually comes from dying the clothes in interesting colors.	Dyes
748	The fact that our king is missing is awful, but it must be the will of the gods.  How could anything happen that isn't the will of the gods?	Will of the Gods
749	Lord Temper won't even allow me to become a knight.  He said I wasn't smart enough to follow directions.	Osric Temper
750	Mice and rats are a relentless plague upon mankind!  I hear that a keep near New Sorpigal has the biggest rats in the world living in it.  <shuddering>  May I never see such horrors as long as I live!	Mice
751	With all of Blackwoode now destroyed, wood is going to be very scarce in Enroth.  We might see another Timber War starting soon.	Blackwoode
752	The Tomb of Ethric the Mad is a wonder of fine stone cutting.  My grandfather helped build it.  He says there are some very cleverly concealed secret doors in the Tomb.  Why Ethric would care if a door was secret or not is beyond me, but hey– he was both rich and mad.  I guess he could do what he liked.	Ethric's Tomb
753	"Why is it goblins have no luck raising chickens?

They plant the eggs too deep!"	Joke of the Day
754	The one thing you can say's been good these days is the cold weather.  All the animals have really thick, valuable fur.  Only trouble is finding them.  Monsters been eating most of the good fur animals, I think.	Fur
755	Just between you and me, I saw a werewolf when I was a werewolf in Blackshire!  I believe all the rumors about their curse.	Blackshire
756	When cattle rustling gets too hard, I usually spend my time hunting on some Lord's land.  Since most people are afraid to hunt there, those forests haven't been over-hunted.  Recently, though, the animals have been getting scarce.  Could have something to do with the western blight.	Poaching
757	In some places it is difficult to hunt for game.  You need to pack more food when you travel in swamps or deserts or snow, for example.	Game
758	Wilbur Humphrey has hired me several times to take notes on disaster reports filtering in from around the kingdom.  I think there's been a sharp increase in calamities since the disappearance of the king.	Records
759	The prince is far too young to manage a kingdom.  Wilbur Humphrey should be ruling the kingdom for himself, not in the name of a child.	Nicolai
760	If you ever find yourself in need of work, just stop by the city council's office in one of the large towns.  There's usually a job that needs doing.	City Councils
761	The rumors of the dynasty collapsing and all the disasters have brought out the worst in humanity.  I need to be even more vigilant than normal to keep the peace.	Unrest
762	Take it from me, if you want a lucky charm, hang around a chimney sweep.  Sure, their banter can be annoying, but they're the luckiest people I know.	Chimney Sweeper
763	I have heard rumors that the recent 'winter during summer' spectacles have been caused by mischievous sorcerers who have learned to meddle with the weather.  I think it's part of a plot to create mass hysteria and open rebellion against the King.	Sabotage of Summer
764	The devils people are talking about causing havoc in the west are just misunderstood.  Baa says that they are our friends.  You just have to be respectful and run from them if you see them coming.  They need a lot of personal space, and get angry if they don't get it.  But that's only because they are superior beings.  If we were superior, all this would be easier to understand.	Devils
765	I'd love to sail the oceans on a big ship.  I could travel to all the islands and just be free of school and chores and my parents.  That would be wonderful!	Boats
766 St	Word is that the goblins are looking to buy weapons for raids on human towns.  I hear the regent has a sizeable bounty on the heads of any who deliver weapons to those evil little toads.	Arms Smugglers
767	Most any dragon that has a lair is absolutely loaded with gold.  They get it from all the paladins who try to kill them to make a name for themselves.	Dragons' Gold
768	Some of the magic items you find around the world are cursed.  Almost none are pure curses, but many have side effects you won't like much.  You should carefully weigh the side effects against the benefits an item offers before using it.	Cursed items
769	Of course you know that spells cast at high noon draw their power directly from the sun.  It is in this way that the mightiest of magicians can afford the power it takes to enchant the magical items you find throughout the land of Enroth.	High Noon
770	The desert is a land that should be avoided by all but the mightiest sorcerers and knights.  Filled with giants and dragons, nearly all who visit do not return.  Rumor has it that a strange pyramid in the desert holds untold riches and secrets waiting to be unearthed by some brave souls.	Desert
771	The pass leading to White Cap and Caste Stromgard has recently been taken by a group of ogres and greedy humans working together.	Icewind Pass
772	I've heard stories of a horrible curse that has possessed the town. Every time I've visited, however, everything seems normal.	Blackshire
773	Although no shipping companies are currently offering the service, Erathia, homeland of Queen Catherine Ironfist, can be reached in a voyage of three weeks or so, depending on the season.  Ain't never been there, but they tell me it's nice.	Erathia
774	Water walking is nice and all, but it doesn't beat a good ship and a good crew.  Not only are you slower than a ship, you have to worry about the spell wearing off, and you have to worry about sea serpent attacks.  Boats are the best way to travel by water.	Water Walking 
775	Resting only really works well in a comfortable place like an inn.  There you can regain lost strength and magic, and heal from most of your wounds.  If you must rest in the wilderness, be sure to have enough food!  Hungry people gain no benefit from rest.	Resting
776	Though not as effective as other healing spells, Healing Touch is in the school of spirit, which makes it easier for paladins to learn.  Also, body spells don't work in certain areas, so you will need to use Healing Touch instead of spells like First Aid or Power Cure.	Healing Touch
777	Shared Life is an excellent way to keep weaker party members alive when your party is being assaulted with area affect spells.  This spell combined with Power Cure can keep everyone alive when you get in over your head.	Shared Life
778	Many teachers do not want to be flooded by students, so they have moved to remote locations.  You might have to look around quite a bit to find them.  Generally, expert teachers know where their master teachers are.	Teachers
779	Fame, in many ways, is an accumulation of the experiences you have and how you've managed to share with others.  Quests and brave deeds against monsters can make you famous.	Fame
780	Personally, my favorite weapon is the mace.  When you get good at it, you learn to strike at hard parts on your opponent so that it bounces off instead of sinking in.  Saves time.  Anyway, when someone gets hit with a mace, it can stun them so bad that they stop fighting back.  And that's a fine thing.	The Glory of the Mace
781	Never underestimate the staff!  Most people associate the staff with a mage, but that's not always the case.  Although you cannot use a shield with a staff, as you become more skilled you'll find that staves are the best defensive weapon around.  Not only that, but they have enough weight to stun people that are hit with it.  It's one of the best all around weapons available.	Staves
782	All of the schools of magic have eleven spells, but only ten can be found in the guilds of darkness.  The missing eleventh spell is called something like Dark Holding or Dark Containment.  No one alive seems to have learned it, and the guilds are very anxious to find it.  	Dark Containment
783	Summoned by mages to guard areas or items, elementals are beings composed of one of the four primary elemental forces:  air, earth, fire, or water.  Elementals can freely use magics of their element, so be wary if you should battle them.	Elementals
784	Archibald, Roland's brother, mastered many magical arts and accomplished himself as a powerful sorcerer before his demise.  No one seems to know where he is buried, though.  It's as though he disappeared after Roland's ascension to the throne.	Archibald
785	Skilled merchants run many of the stores in Enroth.  You must be careful when buying and selling to make sure you are not getting ripped off.	Prices
786	It's dangerous to carry a lot of money with you.  Banks provide a safe place to store large amounts of money.  Though they don't credit you with interest, you don't have to worry about pickpockets.  That's good enough for me.	Banks
787	In the center of Dragonsand you can find a pyramid marking the Tomb of the Ship, or so they say.  I've scoured the desert and found nothing but dragons and titans to run from.  That doesn't mean it's not there– I had to get out of that desert while the getting was good.  A very dangerous place!	The Pyramid 
788	I do not like assassins, or men of low character.  And it seems that both types of criminal are spreading through the land like the plague these days.	Low Character
789	Some creatures you'll run into can be reasoned with if you have a fear spell available.  You can avoid unnecessary and wasteful injury by scaring off your enemies rather than simply fighting with them.	Monsters 
790	Sometimes bandits and highwaymen will accept you if they don't think you're 'upstanding citizens.'  The weak, however, are always robbed.	Highwaymen
791	You must be careful when opening some locks.  Many people don't consider a lock enough of a deterrent, so they will trap their doors or chests to try and frighten off or kill a would-be thief.	Traps
792	All of the really bad disasters started happening after the Night of the Shooting Stars two years ago.  Not much has gone right since then, except the Temple of Baa.  They really help people.  They also say that King Roland must have done something awful, 'cause the stars were avenging angels falling from Heaven to punish the wicked.	Shooting Stars
793	Let me tell you a secret.  There is no such thing as luck.  You make your own luck based on your outlook.  If you expect the worst to happen, it probably will, and you'll have a horrible time.  If, however, you look on the bright side and expect the best, you'll usually find it.	Luck
794	It's hard to travel through the snow.  Good thing you have people like me around!	Snow
795	Resting allows you to approach the new day with vigor and zest.  Resting will heal your wounds and recharge your magic.  Nothing finishes a hard day like a good camp, good dinner, and a good fire.	Benefit of Rest
796	Ever fantasize about discovering a huge horde of treasure?  I do.  They say there are three really big ones:  The first is the knowledge contained in the Royal Library.  The second is the treasure the obelisks lead to.  And the third is in Loretta Fleise's basement!	Fortune
797	I'm not sure the towns to the west even exist anymore.  Merchants don't travel to there, and no one has come back from those areas yet.  I believe civilization ends at Blackshire, and even the people there are strange at times.	Western Areas
798	It may not seem like a big deal, but I like to supplement my cooking with fresh fruit.  You can find it most places just growing on trees, if you look.  Fruit trees have helped me out when I was hungry and had no money, and they could help you, too.	Fruit Trees
799	I believe there is a spell that will allow you to create food for yourself out of thin air, but I can't imagine food made from magic tasting very good.	Create Food Spell
800	I don't suppose you've got any news of Sweet Water, do you?  No one I know has heard anything about the town for a year!  They're a long ways off from here…but a year?  Something must be wrong.	Sweet Water
801	I wonder about the council sometimes.  The decisions they've made and some of the laws they've stalled on have really contributed to the chaos around here.  They've stalled any official investigation of Roland's death, and I don't understand why.	Council Members
802	Practicing meditation may not seem like a big deal at first, but it can be a source of tremendous magical energy to the skilled.  Meditation masters can have many times the spell casting power as their less enlightened brethren.	Meditation
803	Although no shipping companies are currently offering the service, Erathia, homeland of Queen Catherine Ironfist, can be reached in a voyage of three weeks or so, depending on the season.  Ain't never been there, but they tell me it's nice.	Erathia
804	The next best thing to flying, if you fall off of a cliff or similar height; Feather Fall doesn't give you any control but it certainly keeps you alive.  	Feather Fall
805	The legend of the Crossing is more than a thousand years old, but that doesn't stop people from repeating it from time to time.  The legend says that we all, and that even includes the elves, the dwarfs, and the goblins, came from the same place on a great ship that carried us across the void between the stars.	The Crossing
806	I've heard portals exist that allow transit between two fixed places in Enroth.  Knowledge of these would provide another excellent and fast way to move around the world.	Magic Portals
807	The gods oversee our lives and guide us constantly toward heaven and the light.  All you have to do is listen with your heart and do what it tells you to be admitted to heaven.  Have faith.  The gods will help you get there, if you'll listen to them.	The Gods
808	They say the king was last seen fleeing toward Castle Kriegspire with an army of devils following him.  He never returned.  I think we may have to face up to the possibility that our good king was killed by those monsters.	Fall of Roland
809	Teleportation is the way to go to minimize travel times.  Of course, you can move around pretty quickly by boat or by horse if you have a skilled person leading the way.	Travel Times
810	I came to Enroth during the time Regnans were invited by King Archibald to bring over a load of weapons to help in his fight against Roland.  When Archibald lost the war, Roland seized all the arms ships and forbade travel to Regna.  I've been stuck here ever since.	Arms Shipments
811	The simplest piece of a knight's equipment, the shield provides excellent defense for low hindrance and weight.  No warrior should be without a good shield in a fight.	Shields
812	The Witches' Assembly of 638 was the greatest gathering of sorcerers and alchemists ever.  Since then, the popularity of the magical arts has declined, and persecution of groups like ours…er, theirs– has grown quite a bit.  It really is quite awful.	Witches
813	Merchants are businessmen first and foremost.  They will always try to buy low and sell high.  Don't be too upset with them; they need to make a living, too.  The way to get the best prices, both when buying and selling, is to try different markets.	Merchants
814	If you've determined that begging and bribing are of no use, and you simply must speak with a person, then the thinly veiled threat must be issued.  But remember to use this option sparingly, since only the best diplomats can stop the damage you'll do to your reputation if threats become your habit.	Threats
815	Nicolai has commissioned a bridge to be built from New Sorpigal to Mist.  I'm working for him by offering affluent members of society a chance at charter membership of the Nicolai Ironfist Bridge Fellowship.  The basic membership gets your name on a flagstone of the bridge and costs 50,000 gold– a small price to pay for immortality.  Are you interested?	Bridge
816	Fetzil, the Prince of Thieves lieutenant, is smart; he knows enough to hide out when things get hot.  He's not an easy person to catch.	Fetzil 
817	All of the really bad disasters started happening after the Night of the Shooting Stars two years ago.  Not much has gone right since then, except the Temple of Baa.  They really help people.  They also say that King Roland must have done something awful, 'cause the stars were avenging angels falling from Heaven to punish the wicked.	Shooting Stars
818	I hate taxes!  Why should we pay taxes anyway?  It's bad enough I have to spend my life working for other people; I need to pay them for the 'honor'?	Taxes
819	Cotton is found in Karigor, the island home of the Church of the Sun and the Church of the Moon.  It doesn't grow well anywhere else, and it's difficult to pick and seed, but it makes for wonderful soft clothes, if you can afford it.	Cotton
820	If I could actually use a weapon, I'd probably be better off joining a bandit group.  I bet they lead an easy life.	Brigands
821	Sure's been hard to get help recently.  What is a good farmer to do if he can't find strong workers during harvest times?  Go into bankruptcy and ruin, that's what!  Oh, woe is me!	Farm Help
822	I'd love to hear what the Oracle would say about the devils, the Temple of Baa, and Prince Nicolai.  Why won't the council consult the Oracle?	Oracle
823	Change is in the air and on the wind.  You can smell it and feel it.  Something big's going to happen soon.  I can always tell.	Change
824	Warm clothes won't help you resist the chill of Castle Darkmoor.  The undead there steal the warmth from your body with their touch.	Darkmoor
825	The blight that's afflicting western crops and animals is slowly spreading east.  Cows are affected first, and this is causing a very serious leather shortage.  You can expect the price of boots and belts and other leather goods to be increasing!	The Blight
826	This isn't the best job in the world, but at least the work is steady.	Labor
827	Taxes have been good under this King.  Archibald was terrible, much worse than his father.  I thought I would be ruined by Archibald's cruel taxes.  May he nor his like never hold the throne again!	Taxes
828	Let me tell you, some bookshelves or desks or other furniture can be crafted to conceal a secret passage.  You can walk through a room and never realize there were two or three other hidden exits.	Secret Passages
829	If you ever take a trip near Star Lake, be sure to check out the beautiful statues on the island in the center of the lake.  They are so life-like they're breathtaking!	Statues at Star Lake
830	"What is big and red and eats rocks?

A big red rock eater!"	Joke of the Day
831	Come to think of it, the animals all started to go away when the stories of the devils in the West started cropping up.  Yep.  That's probably it.  Pesky critters!	Spooked Animals
832	I'm so pitiful, the bandits that prowl the roads even laugh at me!	Wretch
833	If you think your reputation is getting too bad for people to tolerate you, you should check yourself into a temple and start donating, my friend.  The temple will spread word of your generosity far and wide, and people will think better of you for it.	Notoriety
834	If you're going to hunt anything, you'll need a bow.  I don't think you are fast enough to chase a deer down with your sword.	Bows
835	When I was much younger, I had a chance to see the ruined library of the Church of the Moon at Karigor.  It was made entirely of jade and marble, and once contained the wisdom of the ages within its hallowed halls. If ever you have a chance to visit, take it!	Library at Karigor
836	The main Temple of Baa is just northwest of Blackshire.  Only members of Baa are allowed inside.	Temple
837	The High Council isn't just an ordinary city council– they are the body that represents the lords of the land.  They vote on important matters of state that need to be taken before the king.  They also control access to the Oracle.	High Council
838	It is important for guards to be patient.  We can't go out and look for trouble; we need to wait for trouble to find us.	Patience
839	The poor queen has lost both her father and her husband.  Hopefully, nothing will happen to Nicolai. 	Catherine
840	I'm wondering if something foul indeed fell from the sky that Night two years ago.  I am not, however, of the opinion that it was an avenging angel!  More like a devil, if you ask me!	Meteors
841	I'm fine!  Why do you ask?	Madness
842	Why do grown-ups always have to fight?  Why can't people just get along?	Fighting
843 Sn	What're ya gallivanting' around here for on a Sunday?  It's a day of rest, kid, REST, I say!	Rest
844	There are two kinds of magic armor– armor that increases your protection, and armor that is lighter and easier to wear.  A few rare kinds of armor have both of those properties.	Magic Armor
845	When a wand runs out of charges, you've lost the value of the wand.  They can never be recharged, but it's usually possible to find a sucker to buy the wand at full price  just before the charges run out.	Recharging Wands
846	Combining potions in the right proportions can achieve formulas that do very unusual things.  The Guild of Alchemists closely guards the secrets of which potions have which effects.	Potions
847	I don't have much taste for civilization, but you can rest assured that more goods and services will be available on the east coast of Enroth than anywhere else– particularly Free Haven.	Civilization
848	Horses provide an excellent means of travelling if you can afford the cost.  All of the towns and castles  on the mainland have stables where you can hire horses.	Horses
849	Mages are so lazy, they've formulated several spells to transport people instantly from place to place.  These spells are good, but there's nothing like a REAL journey.	Magic Transportation
850	I've heard there are sorcerers for hire who can cast the Walk on Water spell if you can't do it yourself.  They charge a lot, though.	Water Walking Spells
851	You need to be careful when planning your boat travels.  Certain areas are too dangerous to sail to during parts of the year.	Travel Seasons
852	It is important to get treatment for diseases and poisons.  The longer they go untreated, the harder they are to cure.  Getting poisoned or diseased more than once worsens your situation.	Disease and Poison
853	The highest level spell in the school of body, Power Cure is an effective way to heal the entire party quickly.  One Power Cure heals more damage faster than 4 smaller healing spells.	Power Cure
854	You generally have more hit points than spell points, so it is often faster to heal yourself as best as possible with magic, then rest.  You can cut down on your resting times quite a bit this way.	Resting
855	As your level of experience increases, so does the amount of experience you need to improve.  You'll get more benefit from a magical effect or reward that increases your level directly later in your life because of this rule.	Experience
856	Prince Nicolai shows incredible perception and creativity for his young age, much like his father did.  I don't think people give him enough credit– they're more concerned with his age than his ability.	Nicolai
857	It pays to know how to use two or three different kinds of weapons, kid.  That way you can change tactics in battle if an opponent isn't getting hurt by your favorite fish gutter, if ya know what I mean!	Weapons
858	Osric is not only a master warrior, but an ingenious general.  I'm glad to see that he's not taking the recent attacks by the devils lightly.  He's already working on ways to fight back, but the situation looks pretty grim.  If anyone can come up with a way to fight them, however, it's Osric.	Osric Temper
859	If you're facing an opponent that can't be put down with direct damage spells, try a mental attack spell, or something that freezes them in place.  This can often give the warriors in your group time to pound the enemy into the ground while distracted by your spell.	Mental Attacks
860	Gharik attempted to recreate some of the weapons from the Time of Wonders in his forge.  He was never successful, but a number of his experiments provided useful information for enchanting weapons and summoning creatures.	Gharik
861	A few Guilds of the Elements exist.  Though their knowledge of the individual elements isn't as pervasive as the more specialized guilds, they are an excellent resource to broaden your knowledge of all the elements.	Elemental Magic Guilds
862	The essence of life!  Gold oils the squeaking wheel, silences the witness, or loosens his tongue.  Gold puts food on the table and wood in the fire.  How I love thee, O mighty gold.  Never run out of gold, my friend.  Never!	Gold
863	The most important part of being a merchant can't be taught.  You need to learn to notice a good buy when you see one, and make the good deals when you can.  If you pick up something for cheap in one town, there's a good chance you can sell it somewhere else for a profit.	Speculation
864	I traveled to the lands west of Blackshire recently, and what I saw chilled my blood.  Devils running about a ruined, blighted landscape, killing any humans they ran across.  Something is terribly wrong.  I just don't know why someone isn't doing something about it!	Devils
865	Compared to many countries, Enroth is a very tolerant kingdom.  Nonetheless, you can end up in jail if you commit enough crimes and are foolish enough to show your face to a guard.  	Law and Jail
866	Diplomacy is the key to negotiation, and negotiation is the key to many closed doors in the world.  You must be able to sip champagne with the highest lords and guzzle ale with the lowest scum if you want to succeed.	Negotiating
867	Find a penny, pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck!	Find a Penny
868	Most of the great treasure you'll find will be locked away in a chest or box.  It only makes sense to protect your valuables.	Chests
869	It is better to talk and let them think you a fool than to keep silent and prove it!	Talking
870	Poor Eric's temper matches the weather in his kingdom.  Seeing a smile on his face is about as rare as seeing the sun in White Cap.  He's got the wrong way of looking at things, ol' Eric does.	Eric Von Stromgard
871	Lady Fleise is the most difficult mistress to work for in all Enroth, you can be sure of that!  Penny pinching, heart of stone she has!  	Loretta Fleise
872	Different terrains are easier to forage and hunt in.  You don't need to use quite as much food in grasslands, for example, as you do in the desert.  Keep this in mind when you choose a place to camp.	Food Supply
873	Times are tough, and the banks have stopped giving interest payments on deposits recently.  Don't expect anything but security when you put your money in the bank– interest is a thing of the past!	Time
874	Loretta's managed to make money by creating and exploiting her lead position in the shipping industry.  She's able to manipulate shipping prices all over the kingdom which brings in quite a bit of money.  I only wish I handled her accounts.	Loretta Fleise
875	Better and fresher food that keeps longer is also more expensive.  People out west have figured out the trick of making food that keeps for a long time.	Cost of Food
876	Herbs can be used to create magical potions.  I don't know the procedure, but I know it's possible.  I wonder how those taste?	Alchemy
877	Although it can be expensive, travel using the stables is faster than most any other way, excepting magic, and not many people can do that!  If you're broke, you'll have to hoof it yourself, but don't forget the food cost of travelling by foot!  	Price of riding
878	I love to perform!  I love to travel!  There is no life like that of a bard.  The best gossip, the best food, and, most importantly, the best drink available… why would I ever want to be anything else?	Songs
879	Though you can't hear it, the stars and the planets sing as they travel through the sky.  It is the Music of the Spheres– the grandest symphony in the universe!	Music of the Spheres
880	I've heard there are sorcerers for hire who can cast the Walk on Water spell if you can't do it yourself.  They charge a lot, though.	Water walking Spells
881	Flying is certainly easier than walking.  Safer, for the most part, too.  The only problem is that the Fly spell continually drains your power, so you need to plan your flight trips carefully so the spell doesn't run out.	Flying
882	Water walking– my specialty– permits you to walk across most bodies of water as though you were on dry land.  You have to be careful, though, or the spell will run out while you're still over the water.  	Water walking Spells
883	I've had to rescue a number of doomed expeditions, and let me tell you the one thing I've learned.  If you go somewhere that you don't think you can handle, RETREAT.  No one will think less of you for it.	Retreat
884	The magics of mind, body, and spirit are the magics of the soul and the self.  To improve one's understanding of them is to improve one's standing with the gods.  	Self Improvement
885	Many people have contempt for the simple music of a travelling minstrel, but it is the work of a lifetime to get good at what I do.	Music
886	Many areas with magical powers are scattered around the world.  Most often, they are in out of the way locations.  It's to your best benefit to try and discover and use as many of these as you can.	Special Locations
887	People say bad things about my homeland of Regna all the time, but they don't know what they're talking about.  Never will you find a more fun loving, happy people than on Regna, nor a more fiercely independent people.	Regna
888	The best way to learn is to make sure to fight challenging opponents.  You don't grow by picking on things weaker than yourself.  The true path to glory leads through winning tougher and tougher battles.	Opponents
889	There is a mystical deck of tarot cards some claim to have seen.  No person ever sees the deck twice.  To draw from the deck is to draw a new hand in the game of life.	Tarot Cards
890	Most of the dangerous areas left in the world are found to the west.  Paradise Valley and Dragonsand are the most notable, though the western parts of the Frozen Highlands and the Mire of the Damned are difficult as well.  As a general rule, the farther west, the more difficult.	The West
891	I can't stress the importance of diplomacy enough.  A good diplomat can excuse any action, no matter how foul. 	Diplomacy
892	Devils!  Bah!  They're nothing more than illusions created by mages hiding vast treasure somewhere in Paradise Valley.  I know a few of those sorcerers personally, you see.  This ring I'm wearing was a gift from one of them.	Devils
893	Some people are born to trade, or negotiate, or fight, or study.  I'm born to steal, and I'm pretty good at it.  Times are a lot harder now because of all the calamities; it's hard to find things worth stealing anymore– people are way too careful with what they have.	Stealing
894	Thank God for Sundays!  If I had to work every day I think I would revolt against my noble oppressors and replace them with a capitalist-bourgeoisie run quasi-democratic society where I would still have to work long hours for little pay.	Labor
895	I wonder what life was like before the Silence with a governor in charge of everything?  It couldn't have been very good, or there wouldn't have been a rebellion.	Governor
896	There are three styles of hats popular these days, ranging from the cloth hat to the fancy, expensive sort made by the highest quality tailors.  Wizards like to enchant quality hats because they're lighter than helms and don't block your vision.  Also, a certain kind of conical hat seems easier to enchant than others.	Hats
897	Before the Silence was the Time of Wonders.  Magical creations handled all the hard labor– I wish I had one to do my chores.	Time of Wonders
898	All are equal before the majesty of the law:  Rich man as well as poor is prohibited from sleeping under bridges, stealing bread and begging for change.  –Voltaire	Majesty of Law
899	It's easier to let a barrel roll down hill than to push it up.  Sometimes it's better to just go with the flow.	Advice
900	Not all clay is created equal.  The best clay can be found in the bed of the rivers and streams flowing past Free Haven.	Clay
901	Some articles of clothing have been enchanted.  It will benefit you to wear these types of magic clothes.	Magic Clothes
902	Everyone should wear shoes, not just nobles and rich people!  What are you going to do if you hurt your feet?  How are you going to keep working?	Shoes
903	If I was smart, do ya think I'd be digging ditches for a living?  Be serious, please.	Intelligence
904	Grindstones are so hard to make and find, it's a wonder anyone ever becomes a miller.  I hear that Karigor has a great rock quarry that turns things like millstones out by the hundreds.  	Grindstones
905	Can you imagine the Elves starting a war over deforestation?  Where do you get wood if not from trees?  How am I supposed to make a living if I don't have lumber to shape and build with?	Timber Wars
906	Churches and kings seem to spend a lot of time thinking about paving stones and whatnot.  If it weren't for them, I would hardly have any work at all.	Church Design
907	"Why are there only twenty hours in a goblin day?

Ever see a goblin with twenty-four fingers and toes?"	Joke of the Day
908	Used to be plenty of game out west.  Not so much, these days. Maybe it has something to do with the blight that's been killing the plants in Pleasant Valley.	Game
909	Most people have too many problems of their own to help out a poor beggar like me, but the priests of the Temple of Baa always seem to have time and money or food for me.  I'm very grateful to them for helping me.	Temple of Baa
910	The blight everyone's been talking about has been killing all the cows!  Now tell me.  How's a soul supposed to make a living rustling cattle when there's no cattle to rustle?	Cow Shortage
911	Mogreds are extinct in Enroth, and almost extinct in Karigor.  They were over-hunted because of how valuable their horns are for enchanting.	Extinction
912	There's a paper shortage that's come up recently, and I can tell you, my clients do NOT like it.  It's amazing to hear some wealthy noble like Loretta Fleise complain about the cost of paper.  She probably has the largest pile of gold in the kingdom, perhaps even the world, and still she complains.	Paper
913	Based on worshipping nature and the world around us, this church cared less about the people and more about its selfish goals.  	Church of the Sun
914	I could certainly use a holiday.  How many clerks do you know of that work every day of the year?	Holidays
915	I know most people don't feel our job is important.  With the events recently, however, it's extremely important for us to keep order.  We will be as vigilant as ever!	Guards
916	I hope your luck is better than mine.  I've lost a lot of money on sure bets recently.  I think the bad luck of the Ironfists is rubbing off on me.	Luck
917	I hate Sundays!  It is ever so hard to get good help to work on Sunday.  Like it's different than any other day!  Humph.	Sundays
918	Baa changed my life for the better!  Surrender your will to Baa, and you will forever be free of doubt and pain!	Worship of Baa
919	I can't wait for the Circus of the Sun to get here.  I've been good all year, so hopefully my parents will take me to see it!	Circus
920	Placeholder	Placeholder