Item#	message text	Location	Item Name
700	"
A Black Potion of Rejuvenation can be valuable in correcting the effects of aging.  To mix such a potion you need to find the correct combination of three of each of the base reagents. "	Rejuvenation	Rejuvenation Recipe
701	"
A Black Potion of Pure Might is any adventurer's dream.  The addition to permanent might can turn ANYONE into a fighting machine.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of four of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents.  "	Pure Might	Pure Might Recipe
702	"
A Black Potion of Pure Accuracy is any archer's dream.  The addition to permanent accuracy can turn ANYONE into a fighting machine.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of four of any yellow reagent type, plus two of any red reagent type and one of the blue reagents.  "	Pure Accuracy	Pure Accuracy Recipe
703	"
The Black Potion of Pure Personality will add to a character's permanent personality. This will increase the total spell points based off Personality. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type, plus four of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents.  "	Pure Personality	Pure Personality Recipe
704	"
A Black Potion of Pure Endurance is any adventurer's dream.  The addition to permanent endurance can turn ANYONE into a fighting machine, increasing their hit points far beyond normal.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type, plus four of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents.  "	Pure Endurance	Pure Endurance Recipe
705	"
The Black Potion of Pure Intellect will add to a character's permanent intellect, increasing the total spell points based off of intellect. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and four of the yellow reagents.  "	Pure Intellect	Pure Intellect Recipe
706	"
The Black Potion of Pure Speed could be the answer for a party who just doesn't get the jump on the monsters.  The addition to permanent speed could be just what is needed to allow you to recover and act before the monsters do.  You can never be too quick. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of four of any red reagent type, plus one of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents.  "	Pure Speed	Pure Speed Recipe
707	"
The Black Potion of Pure Luck could be the answer for a party who is disarm trap skill challenged.  The addition to permanent luck could be just what is needed to allow you to duck before a trap goes off.  You can never have too much luck. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type, plus three of any blue reagent type and three of the yellow reagents."	Pure Luck	Pure Luck Recipe
708	"
The Black Potion of Slaying can turn any normal weapon into a weapon of dragon slaying.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type, plus three of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents."	Slaying Potion	Slaying Potion Recipe
709	"
The Black Potion of Stone to Flesh allows you to remove the stoned condition on a character. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and three of the yellow reagents."	Stone To Flesh	Stone To Flesh Recipe
710	"
The White Potion of Might Boost temporarily boosts your strength just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type and two of any blue reagents."	Might Boost	Might Boost Recipe
711	"
The White Potion of Intellect Boost temporarily boosts your intellect just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any blue reagent type and three of any yellow reagents."	Intellect Boost	Intellect Boost Recipe
712	"
The White Potion of Personality Boost temporarily boosts your personality just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any blue reagent type and two of any yellow reagents."	Personality Boost	Personality Boost Recipe
713	"
The White Potion of Endurance Boost temporarily boosts your endurance just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type and three of any blue reagents."	Endurance Boost	Endurance Boost Recipe
714	"
The White Potion of Speed Boost temporarily boosts your speed just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type and two of any yellow reagents."	Speed Boost	Speed Boost Recipe
715	"
The White Potion of Accuracy Boost temporarily boosts your accuracy just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type and three of any yellow reagents."	Accuracy Boost	Accuracy Boost Recipe
716	"
The White Flaming Potion turns any normal weapon into a weapon of Flame. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type, plus one of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents."	Flaming Potion	Flaming Potion Recipe
717	"
The White Freezing Potion turns any normal weapon into a weapon of Frost. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents."	Freezing Potion	Freezing Potion Recipe
718	"
The White Noxious Potion turns any normal weapon into a weapon of Poison. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents."	Noxious Potion	Noxious Potion Recipe
719	"
The White Shocking Potion turns any normal weapon into a weapon of Sparks. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type, plus one of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents."	Shocking Potion	Shocking Potion Recipe
720	"
The White Swift Potion turns any normal weapon into a weapon of Swiftness. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type, plus three of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents."	Swift Potion	Swift Potion Recipe
721	"
The White Potion of Cure Paralysis eliminates the Paralysis condition. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type, plus one of any blue reagent type and three of the yellow reagents."	Cure Paralysis	Cure Paralysis Recipe
722	"
The White Potion of Divine Restoration eliminates all conditions except stoned, dead or eradicated. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents."	Divine Restoration	Divine Restoration Recipe
723	"
The White Potion of Divine Cure is more powerful than the Potion of Cure Wounds. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type and any three of the yellow reagents."	Divine Cure	Divine Cure Recipe
724	"
The White Potion of Divine Power is a more powerful spell point restorative than is the Magic Potion. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any blue reagent type and any three of the yellow reagents."	Divine Power	Divine Power Recipe
725	"
The White Potion of Luck Boost temporarily boosts your luck just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type and three of any blue reagents."	Luck Boost	Luck Boost Recipe
726	"
The White Potion of Fire Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to fire inflicted damage.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type, plus one of any blue reagent type and three of the yellow reagents."	Fire Resistance	Fire Resistance Recipe
727	"
The White Potion of Air Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to air inflicted damage.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents."	Air Resistance	Air Resistance Recipe
728	"
The White Potion of Water Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to water inflicted damage.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type, plus three of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents."	Water Resistance	Water Resistance Recipe
729	"
The White Potion of Earth Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to earth inflicted damage.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type, plus one of any blue reagent type and two of the yellow reagents."	Earth Resistance	Earth Resistance Recipe
730	"
The White Potion of Mind Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to damage inflicted by Mind Magic.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type, plus three of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents."	Mind Resistance	Mind Resistance Recipe
731	"
The White Potion of Body Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to damage inflicted by Body Magic.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type, plus two of any blue reagent type and three of the yellow reagents."	Body Resistance	Body Resistance Recipe
732	"I Dadeross, certify, that the individuals who bear this letter with my seal, do indeed carry with them the Axe of Balthazar. Treat these fine warriors as family and give them all possible honors.

Dadeross,
Journeyman Merchant of Alvar
Axe Master of the Ravage Roaming Herd"		Certificate of Authentica
733	"My Brethren,

I have decided to find the Sarcophagus of Korbu in the hopes that Korbu himself may be able to provide the answers I seek.  The trip will be long and dangerous, for the denizens of Ravenshore, and the Dragon Hunters of Garrote Gorge will not receive any of our kind with a warm welcome. I will seek out what shelter I can on my way to Ravage Roaming.  I leave these notes behind to document my journey. If I am not heard from again, perhaps you will find Korbu.

Ciatlen Venitius"		Journal Scrap
734	"My Brethren,

As I had feared, Ravenshore is not a friendly place to our kind.  I was chased from the city limits by a torch wielding crowd.  It was like something from one of the stories told to frighten us when we first undergo the hunger, meant to scare us away from populated areas.  The dire wolves of this area did not seem to mind my presence, perhaps they recognize a kindred spirit. Tomorrow I will try to make it to Garrote Gorge, hopefully I will find shelter there.

Ciatlen Venitius"		Journal Scrap
735	"My Brethren,

Garrote Gorge is a battlefield.  The Dragon slaying knights of Charles Quixote and the Flights of Deftclaw Redreaver battle daily, with no end to their conflict in site. This battle seems senseless.  At least we have reached an uneasy relationship with the Necromancers of Shadowspire upon which we feed. Perhaps Korbu was indeed mad, for at least we do not battle to feed. Or is it right that another race give up their lives to sustain us?  I wonder.  Tomorrow I leave for Ravage Roaming.  None of our kind has been to this region since Korbu left us.  I do not know what I will find. Answers? Korbu himself?

Ciatlen Venitius"		Journal Scrap
736	"My Brethren,

Here in the Crypt of Korbu I have found nothing but tragedy.  Korbu has perished.  Perhaps he no longer had the will to prey upon others to sustain himself.  Guardian Nagas have infested the crypt, and reaching Korbu was indeed difficult.  Instead of answers, I find myself confronted with only more questions.  Why would Korbu accept his own death, instead of taking the life of another for sustenance. The greatest of our kind is nothing but a pile of bones and dust.  I will bring these remains back to the elders, perhaps they will find the answers that I cannot.

Ciatlen Venitius"		Journal Scrap
737	"My Brethren,

I fed today upon the body of a young knight. For the first time since I experienced the hunger, I felt something as I drained this woman of her life. I have no way to describe this sensation, only that it was very unpleasant. My mind wanders, and I think more and more of the reasons why Korbu left us so long ago. We experience eternal life, but at the cost of the lives of others.  

There was a terrible wind storm from the north today.  I saw trees caught in the storm high about the northern range of the Dragon's Teeth.  I have never seen such a storm.   I will continue back through Ravenshore and then onto home.

Ciatlen Venitius"		Journal Scrap
738	"Brethren,

I approached the outskirts of Ravenshore today.  As I did, a strange glow emanated from the center of the town.  I could feel dark magics in the air.  After considering my reception the last time through this area, I have decided to head north through Alvar, and then east to the Ironsand Desert. From there I will return home to Shadowspire.  As I fed again this night, I felt that same feeling of dread as when I fed on the young knight.  I still see the terror in her eyes. Perhaps Korbu was right?  Is it wrong that we take lives to live?

Ciatlen Venitius"		Journal Scrap
739	"I was burned today.  The cover here in Alvar is few and far between.  The sun has scarred my face and hands. If only I had thought to ask the elders for a Nightshade Amulet to protect me.  Then my journey surely would have been a swift one. 

I have not fed since Ravenshore as I do not wish to experience the sense of dread I picked up in Garrote Gorge. Perhaps I will feed upon the Trolls of Ironsand when I reach there. I know that the Cyclops in that region are non-hostile to our kind since we arranged for a Alvarian merchant caravan to be waylaid near their camp.  I will rest in their Larder and then return home.  

Ciatlen"		Journal Scrap
740	"I am through.  Korbu was right.  It is not right for us to take the lives of others to sustain ourselves.  The feeling I have been experiencing must be remorse.  This must be what Korbu felt as well.  I will not feed again.  I will lay down as Korbu did and perish here in the Cyclops Larder.  It is my hope that Korbu will be forgotten and that his remains will be left here. I will secret them away, as I believe that he would not wish to experience life again.  Ancient legends of our people speak of a curse that was placed upon us.  It is my belief that we are indeed cursed.  Once you have felt remorse the only desire you have is for forgiveness.  For me this is now only a dream.

Ciatlen"		Journal Scrap
741	"Guildmaster Fellmoon,

I am sending this to inform you of disturbing events on the Dagger Wound Islands. My caravan is trapped here, but that is the least of it. Soon after we arrived, a great volcano rose from the nearby sea. It pushed before it a great wave which washed away the bridges connecting the islands to one another and to the mainland. Day and night the island is pelted by burning rocks hurled from the volcano. On top of all, the Regnans have taken this as opportunity to raid. I tell you, it is chaos!

Caravan Leader Dadeross"		Dadeross' Letter to Fellm
742	"Dear Hunter,

Recent matters require me to request your cooperation and assistance. Specifically, I would like you to gift my guild immediate use of your boats for an indefinite period of time. Oh, I imagine this will impact your business, so let me make, as a gift in return, assurances of the continuing safety of your lovely daughter, Irabelle. I understand she is a pupil at the Alvar Academy. It would be a pity if her studies were interrupted by misfortune, no? I'm sure we agree, so I thank you in advance for your generosity.

Elgar Fellmoon"		Blackmail Letter
743	"…and now we make ready to win what we have so long sought. The improbable wasp nest lies in the canyon just north of our campsite and the prize within will be ours. I'm sure we'll succeed where so many others have failed. Not to say they were not stout enough, but rather that they were ill-prepared.

It meant several months of careful collecting, but we have with us the magic we will need to maneuver in the hive. All the gold we spent gathering the scrolls will be well worth the investment. Money will not be a problem once we..."		Journal Scrap
744	"
Located in what is currently the city of Ravenshore, the Vault of Time is a curious relic of the Amberly Dynasty, the monarchy which ruled the areas along the southern coast of Jadame during the period 342-621 R.E. The last Amberlian emperor, Thorn III (589-633 R.E.) knowing the empire was crumbling, sealed his regalia away in the specially constructed vault to safeguard them for a day when he or his kin could return the empire to its former glory.

Now that the Amberlians have definitely passed into history, Thorn's vault has become the focus of many treasure hunters. The magics sealing the vault have proven potent against any attempt to penetrate it. To this day, Thorn's treasure remains locked away from the eyes of all."		History of the Vault of T
745	"STONE PORTALS

These strange devices appear as stone squares set in the ground, and have short pillars at each corner. It seems they were built by the temple builders as a means of transportation between the islands. Magic is clearly involved. They are powered by enchanted onyx stones. I found one myself near the temple, and I know Onefang has another. Each portal requires its own stone for power.

ABANDONED TEMPLE

I have uncovered an engraving which seems to suggest that the abandoned temple at the northwest island connects underwater to the island to the northeast. If this is so, the builders possessed very advanced construction techniques."		Dagger Wound Oddities
746	"Arion Hunter,

We will be watching you to guarantee your compliance with Zog's requests.  Any deviation from his orders, and the Pack Master will lead the Dire Wolves into your hidden sanctuary and drive you out into the sea. 

Remember, your opinions are not requested, only your compliance.  Deliver the reports on the Merchants of Alvar to the Dread Pirate Stanley as ordered and your family will be returned to you.  Eventually.  

Zog
"		Letter to Arion Hunter
747	"ANSWER SECTION

Riddles, page 56: 1) Fifteen Ducks!  2) The Troll's Grandmother  3) Prison

Riddles, page 57: 1) Egg  2) The chicken was upside-down. 3) Wasp Jelly on a Cracker

Riddles, page 58: 1) Ogre Feet 2) Inside 3) They made soup."		Page Torn from a Book
748	"
Plan: Use old siege door system to drain lair.

Lever Order: A, B, C, E, G, D, J, C, E, F, D, I, C, Lowest

Reset: A

Tritons: Watch out!"		Notes - Emergency Meeting
749	"
Finally! After years of failure, we've had a successful test fire of the Cannonball of Dominion. Not only did the cannon not explode, the shot produced the expected, wide area of fury destruction. Now, the challenge is to develop a suitable ship mounting for the experimental cannon located outside the fortress. Once we've accomplished this, we will forever rule the seas! Our ships will be capable of sinking entire fleets with a single shot from just one of these new cannons!"		Cannon Design Notes
750	"
It is inevitable; the temple is lost to us. Never did we think that our own creations would turn against us. Nor did we think they could so handily bring about our annihilation. Only I and my assistant, Khsth'thck, are all that remain of the Relic Wardens. This note is for any of the Keepers of the True Vision who come to reclaim the temple.

Khsth'thck and I have already secured the holy idol. Remember, it is the sixth plate, not the fourteenth! We lost Warden Rsh'Dhx when that mistake was made last. I only pray the defenses will hold until you arrive.

Faithfully yours,

Yvwch'vhs xhl'brck, High Nestmaster"		Old Scroll
751	The black potion of Divine Boost temporarily increases all your Seven Statistics. To mix this potion, you require the correct combination of eleven reagents: of which there are always three blue and three yellow ones. The remaining five differ in the many possible mixes that lead to obtaining this potion.		Divine Boost recipe
752	The black potion of Divine Protection combines the effects of the white resistance boosting potions, temporarily increasing all your resistances. To mix this potion, you require the correct combination of twelve reagents: of which there are always three red and three yellow ones. The remaining six differ in the many possible mixes that lead to obtaining this potion.		Divine Protection recipe
753	The black potion of Divine Transcendence temporarily increases a character’s level. To mix this potion, you require the correct combination of ten reagents: three of each color plus an additional one of a random color.		Divine Transcendence recipe
754	Essence of Luck increases a character’s Luck by 15, while subtracting 2 from the other statistics. This potion requires six reagents to mix, four of any one color supplemented by one from each of the remaining colors.		Essence of Luck recipe
755	The magnificent Potion of the Gods increases all seven statistics of a character by 20, once. There are many ways to mix this potion, but all involve ten reagents: four of one type and three of the other two types.		Potion of the Gods recipe
756	The Potion of Doom increases a character’s Seven Statistics, Life, Spell Points, Armor Class and Resistances by 1 at the cost of magically aging them 5 years. This potion can be mixed in more than one way, but always requires eight reagents: two of one type and three of the other two types.		Potion of Doom recipe
757	Pure Fire Resistance increases your character’s Fire Resistance by 40, once. It is among the most complicated potions to brew, requiring nothing short of twelve reagents. More than one way to brew this potion exists, but each one involves at least three red, four yellow and two blue reagents.		Pure Fire Resistance recipe
758	Pure Air Resistance increases your character’s Air Resistance by 40, once. It is among the most complicated potions to brew, requiring nothing short of twelve reagents. More than one way to brew this potion exists, but each one involves at least four red, four blue and one yellow reagent.		Pure Air Resistance recipe
759	Pure Water Resistance increases your character’s Water Resistance by 40, once. It is among the most complicated potions to brew, requiring nothing short of twelve reagents. More than one way to brew this potion exists, but each one involves at least two red, three yellow and four blue reagents.		Pure Water Resistance recipe
760	Pure Earth Resistance increases your character’s Earth Resistance by 40, once. It is among the most complicated potions to brew, requiring nothing short of twelve reagents. More than one way to brew this potion exists, but each one involves at least four red, three yellow and two blue reagents.		Pure Earth Resistance recipe
761	Pure Body Resistance increases your character’s Body Resistance by 40, once. It is among the most complicated potions to brew, requiring nothing short of twelve reagents. More than one way to brew this potion exists, but each one involves at least two red, four yellow and three blue reagents.		Pure Mind Resistance recipe
762	Pure Mind Resistance increases your character’s Mind Resistance by 40, once. It is among the most complicated potions to brew, requiring nothing short of twelve reagents. More than one way to brew this potion exists, but each one involves at least three red, two yellow and four blue reagents.		Pure Body Resistance recipe
763	Essence of Might increases a character’s Might by 15, while subtracting 5 from his Intellect. This potion requires six reagents to mix, four of any one color supplemented by one from each of the remaining colors.		Essence of Might recipe
764	Essence of Intellect increases a character’s Intellect by 15, while subtracting 5 from his Might. This potion requires six reagents to mix, four of any one color supplemented by one from each of the remaining colors.		Essence of Intellect recipe
765	Essence of Personality increases a character’s Personality by 15, while subtracting 5 from his Speed. This potion requires six reagents to mix, four of any one color supplemented by one from each of the remaining colors.		Essence of Personality recipe
766	Essence of Accuracy increases a character’s Accuracy by 15, while subtracting 5 from his Endurance. This potion requires six reagents to mix, four of any one color supplemented by one from each of the remaining colors.		Essence of Accuracy recipe
767	Essence of Endurance increases a character’s Endurance by 15, while subtracting 5 from his Accuracy. This potion requires six reagents to mix, four of any one color supplemented by one from each of the remaining colors.		Essence of Endurance recipe
768	Essence of Speed increases a character’s Speed by 15, while subtracting 5 from his Personality. This potion requires six reagents to mix, four of any one color supplemented by one from each of the remaining colors.		Essence of Speed recipe
769	The Protection from Magic potion grants the drinker the effect of the spell for a duration dependent on potion strength. This potion requires seven reagents to mix: two of each type plus the seventh, which can be of any color. This means the potion can be obtained in three distinct ways.		Protection from Magic recipe
770	Hello, caravaneer.

I have an offer for you, which would eclipse the career of any adventurer! Meet me in Murmurwoods, inside circle of stones. Won't trust more details to paper.
I will be there *any time* you will decide to come, but even it is against code of our organization, I plead, do not delay too long.

V.	Event, Crosscontinent quest	Letter for YOU.
771	Hello, nobles.

I have an offer for you, which would eclipse the fate of any hero! Meet me in empty tower of Clancer's laborathory in Tularean forest. Won't trust more details to paper.
I will be there *any time* you will decide to come, but even it is against code of our organization, I plead, do not delay too long.

V.	Event, Crosscontinent quest	Letter for YOU.
772	Hello, adventurers.

I have an offer for you, which would eclipse the fate of any hero! Meet me in Abdul's Resort in Dragonsand. Won't trust more details to paper.
I will be near pedestal there *any time* you will decide to come, but even it is against code of our organization, I plead, do not delay too long.

V.	Event, Crosscontinent quest	Letter for YOU.
773			message scroll 773
774	Fellow journeman!

Noble Lord Markham organizes a grandiose match on the Emerald island!
Take your chance to enter the pantheon of the nobles, winning the right to rule the famous castle Harmondale and all it's neighborhoods!

Boats from Steadwick shipping Emerald Island each wednesday, while contest is on the way.



	City of Steadwick.	Advertisment.
775			message scroll 775
776			message scroll 776
777			message scroll 777
778			message scroll 778
779			message scroll 779
780			message scroll 780
781			message scroll 781
1502	"
Greetings,

Years ago, in a previous war, the Elves stole an artifact from us during a raid.  They've managed to hide this artifact away since, but now they've decided to move it into the Tularean Caves for safekeeping.  We've sent a raiding party of our own to get the artifact from them before they're able to get it in the caves.  I would ask that you assist our forces in assuring the artifact's return.

Thank you,

Ellen Rockway"	Event	Message from Erathia
1503	"
Y iupj xckox nmw henv ik eoiuyl pwzmjh usv vqwy xjvisfx nmw qeey zwga xjm htlsi. Jn cx fchub yfkh iponm osiu uhi usduyl. Rq xec cm igbu bhx yzs tfvn uswt. Hiii disl."	Event	Cipher
1504	"
A complex pattern is frequently observed following the relatively rare event of endoplasmic reticuli condensing upon the inner wall of the momentum cantilever wave front formed when endocromancy is performed over improperly prepared arabits.  Since the cube root of i can only be determined by measuring the troughs found amongst the carabine, It is clear that t'was brilling and the slithy toves did gyre and gimble in the wabe during the event.

Obviously, this leads to the inescapable conclusion that all mimsy were the borogoves!  As a matter of fact, when such phenomena are observed, one could further postulate that the cosine A of delta F is positive, and the mome raths outgrabe. 

Of course, this is all elementary!  For a more in depth study, refer to Delphine's classic study of Regolith Whitesinage and Malarkey.  "	"Event, School of Sorcery"	Scroll of Waves
1505	"
Though cryptography has many forms, the focus of this manual shall be the substituted word form, sometimes known as the ""lesser cipher"".  Simply put, the two parties agree on a word or phrase to act as the 'key'.  This word is then added to the letters of the encrypted message repeatedly, until the message is entirely scrambled.  If the key word, for example, was 'angel', and the encrypted message was 'ucv rmom zjossax', you would decrypt it thus:

ucv rmom  zjossax - 
ang elan gelange =
too many secrets

Where u minus a equals t, c minus n equals o, and v minus g also equals o.  Note that the key word repeats itself constantly, and skips over spaces and punctuation.  

The greater cipher would use the entire page of a book, for example, as the key--eliminating key repetition altogether.  It is, obviously, MUCH harder to break.  It is the author's sincere hope that this little cryptography primer has been of service.  Happy espionage!"	"Player Castle, Event (I believe)"	Basic Cryptography
1506	"
My 'Lords,'

I request your presence at the Mercenary Guild in Tatalia in two weeks to discuss the service you owe an associate of mine, Mr. Malwick.  Failure to adhere to this request could prove most devastating for you and your town.  I look forward to meeting you.

Niles Stantley"	Event	Message from Mr. Stantley
1507	"
Detailed plans to Fort Riverstride including patrol patterns and duty shifts.  These plans could be devastating in the wrong hands."	Fort Riverstride	Riverstride Plans
1508	"
Detailed plans to Fort Riverstride including patrol patterns and duty shifts.  Because of the misinformation contained, these plans would be devastating to any enemies planning an attack on the Fort."	Event	False Riverstride Plans
1509	"
…can't hold on much longer.  The goblins have received assistance from some large flying creature, and they began falling from the skies soon after we took the fort.  I don't think we are going to survive much longer; I'm going to miss my wife and fami…"	Chest in fort in Area 2	Fragment of Soldier's Dia
1510	"
Jailkeeper Faedril,

We have built a new addition to the caves here in the Tularean Forest; I'm sure you'll like it.  To gain access to the new section, you'll have to cross a bridge we've concealed with magic (who would think to try and walk on air?), then activate a set of teleporters.  One of the teleporters will take you to the prison section; the other two are traps.

To make garrison duty of the prison even more secure, we've managed to capture some wyverns from Avlee and a small tribe of troglodytes to guard the prison section of the caves.  Be sure to keep them well fed if you want to visit that section-- the wyverns can be quite hostile.

Of course, we take no responsibility for your life or the lives of your men-- our job was to supervise prison construction and to minimize the chance of rescue or escape.  Your safety is in your own hands.

Niles Stantley"	Tularean Caves	Letter from Mr. Stantley
1511	"
…Saint Perci traveled from Avlee to Bracada in search of the missing spear, and many times lost his way.  He was unable to discover its location and wandered most the continent of Erathia.

When he had at last lost all hope, he had a vision:  When the sun sets in the west, when the moon sets in the north, and when the stars fall in the east you shall find that which you seek.

Saint Perci gained hope from his vision, and set out again to sear...
"	"Grand Temple of Light, somewhere accesible"	Torn Page
1512	"
…studies in the game of ArcoMage have turned up the following observations:

How you choose to win the game should be based on the victory conditions.  If the towers start small, you stand a good chance of destroying your opponent's tower.  If the towers or walls start large, you should concentrate on your own tower.  If the towers or walls start large, and you need a huge tower to win, a resource victory might be more easily attainable.

Also, note that red cards tend to focus on your wall, blue cards focus on your tower, and green cards focus on your offense.  Keep this in mind when choosing whether to emphasize quarries, magic, or zoos.

I HAVE noticed a prevailing trend in the thinking of most ArcoMage players that could provide an edge against them, if they start to play blue cards, you can counter that wit..."	"White Cliff Caves, near the cards and skeleton"	Remains of a Journal
1513	"
Scribe's notes (Seljin interrogation, Day 3)
June 8th, 1120

Interrogator:  Let's go over this again, shall we?  Yesterday, you said the tomb was in Bracada.  Several of my men were slain by golems looking where you had indicated.  I thought we had finally decided to cooperate.  I can see now that you lied to me.

Seljin:  No...Didn't lie...Borders change...

Interrogator:  Fah!  They changed last year!  Apply the instruments!

Interrogator:  Ok, heal him and wake him up.  (pause).  I am your friend.  I can end the pain.  Tell me where the Tomb of the Master lies.

Seljin:  Erathia!  Southern Erathia!  

Interrogator:  Hmm.  Sounds more likely.  Apply the instruments again, just to be sure.  (pause)  Ok, heal him and wake him up again.  I am your friend.  I can end the pain.  Tell me the truth.  Where is the Tomb of the Master?

Seljin:  I told you!  Oh please!  South...South Erathia!  

Interrogator:  Ok, good.  That's a wrap, boys.  Return the prisoner to his cell, and let's get moving!

    "	Torture chamber of Castle Harmondale	Journal Excerpt
1514	"
Scale

Catherine and Eldrich will never understand our joy over their struggle over disputed Harmondale.  Continue to harvest the benefits of their war.  In the end they shall not be able to stand against us. 

-Archibald"	Message from Archibald to Evil Ambassador	Letter from Archibald
1515	"
Niles,

I believe I have found a group of ""adventurers"" who will meet your needs.  They have some ability but appear very gullible.  I will do my best to get them to accept a favor from us.  Once duped I am sure we can use this favor owed to our advantage.  If they do not wish to ""repay"" us for this favor, we can always arrange for an accident to befall them.

Hopefully this group will meet your needs and you will arrange transport off of this rock!  I look forward to leaving this accursed island.

-Malwick"	Mercenary Guild	Letter from Malwick
1516	"
Ambassador Wright,

Its is very important that you speak with the new Lords of Harmondale.  It is my hope that they can end this stupidity between Queen Catherine and King Eldrich. Loren Steel, the carrier of this message, can provide you with further details. If the war continues, it will only serve to strengthen Archibalds position.

Gavin Magnus
Ruling Wizard"	Tularean Caves	Letter from Gavin Magnus
1517	"
  …our first day since reaching Emerald Island.  

A strange man named Malwick approached us. His offer seemed strange, a wand for ""future considerations"".  We turned him down.  As we left and headed towards the northeastern area of the island he laughed and yelled that he knew that he ""wouldn't see us again."""	Dragon Cave on Emerald Island	Journal Fragment
1518	"
-Hairbaugh

Light the signal fires when you know that the humans are at their weakest.  We will arrive within days of seeing your signal!  Do not betray me again!  You must leave your personal interests behind if you wish to survive in my tribe.

Grognard the Great!"	Castle Harmondale either obviously placed or on a goblin	Letter to Hairbaugh
1519	"
My dear Mister Malwick,

I have not heard from you in some time.  I hope this letter finds you well.  You were supposed to send regular messages to us so that we would be up to date on your ""recruitment drive"".  It is important that you find the right people.  Markham must be handled correctly...and then Harmondale should be ours.

Once you have completed this I am sure we can make arrangements to bring you home and have your debt cleared.

-Niles"	Erathian Sewers	Letter from Mr. Stantley
1520	"
Journal Entry 23rd of April 1058

May the Sun light my path and guide me this day.

We received word today that the Temple of the Moon has dispatched an armed force to Nighon. It has been decided that I will lead some of my brothers in an attempt to stop what ever vile deed they plan.  May the Sun shine upon us and end this war as soon as possible.  The battles in the north have sundered the plains of Bracada.  If we continue with this war we may destroy the very land we are trying to save..."	Grand Temple of the Sun	"Journal Entry, 23rd Apri
1521	"
Journal Entry 30th of June 1059

May the Sun illuminate the truth and rend the darkness.

The Circle of Stone here in Nighon is no more.  We, in our attempt to stop the followers of the Moon, have aided in the destruction of that which we were sent to protect. Only a few brothers remain.  We will attempt to return to the Grand Temple of the Sun.  If this journal is found, it means we were unsuccessful.  Its is my hope that those who read this will understand that we meant no harm.  We only sought to protect.  May the Sun guide our steps through the darkness ahead..."	Nighon in chest	"Journal Entry, 30th June
1522	"
…finally managed to rid myself of that cursed land.  I have enough problems-- I certainly don't need them compounded by a centuries old Elf/Human conflict.  Fortunately, my scheme worked perfectly; that little group accepted a territory I couldn't pay to have someone take.  Now all that's left is to secure my position in Kar..."	Lord Markham's Manor	Excerpt from a Diary
1523	"
Velatyr,

Our raids have been quite successful; our position allows us to hit two routes, Erathia to Deyja and Erathia to Harmondale.  We've done as you've suggested and kept our activity infrequent enough to prevent direct intervention from Erathian forces.  Also, our cave has been hidden enough that casual observation won't be enough to locate it.  Your payment is being finalized right now, and will be shipped to you soon.

Laerat"	Bandit Caves	Letter
1524	"
Journal Entry 11th of December 1059

May the Sun smite the darkness and reveal the truth

We have made our way to the Downs.  All has changed.  Ghosts and Gog's over run the area.  Brother Peter was taken by something in the night.  The Barrows seem to have released their evil into the surronding area. Brother Christian and I are attempting to make it to a mansion I know of in the far east of this region.  He and I are the only ones left.  May the Sun guide our path..."	Barrow Downs	"Journal Entry, 11th Dece
1525	"
Captain Harret,

Although we don't expect any direct trouble from Deyja or the elves, I'd like you too keep an eye on bandit activity.  I have a suspicion that the bandits are far more organized than they want us to believe.  Don’t hesitate to destroy them, but do not overly weaken Fort Riverstride to that end.

General Daggerson"	Fort Riverstride	Orders from Steadwick
1526	"
Journal Entry 2nd of January 1057

The Sun guides my feet upon the path to truth

I have been sent by the Grand Temple on a recruitment drive to Tatalia.  We hope to bolster our faith and swell our ranks.  The disciples of the Moon are moving on some great plan. May the Sun stop them in their darkness..."	Tatalia	"Journal Entry, 2nd Janua
1527	"
Journal Entry 19th of September 1057

The Sun guides me and protects me from falsehood

I have travelled to Deyja to see for myself the vile repercussion of the deeds of the Necromancers.  There are rumors that they have been working with the followers of the Moon.  This cannot be, as their combined power would be unstopable.  May the Sun lead me from the darkness..."	Deyja	"Journal Entry, 19th Sept
1528	"
..going fine.  We managed to find a perfect place for the lift engine, near a continuos supply of steam energy.  With proper maintenance, that engine should work forever.  The metals we've discovered on the lower level are much better quality than the junk upstairs; though we haven't seen a lot of gems or precious metals.  Hopefully the dig tomorrow turns up something better.

August 12th, 1167

We broke through what appeared to be a natural cave, and we discovered a horrible creature with the body of a snake with a female human torso.  The mere gaze of these creatures was enough to turn our miners to stone.  The rest of us fled, and Drathen Keldin, our engineer, stayed back to try and sabotage the lift.  I'm not sure where the creatu..."	Red Dwarf Mines	Journal Entry
1529	Missing Scroll Text 727		Empty Message Scroll
1530	"
Bill of Sale
To:  Schmendrick
From:  ACME Golem's

We have made the golem parts per your request.  Unfortunately our delivery service has, misplaced these parts for you.  We are not responsible for any errors by the delivery service.  We do however know where your parts were delivered and you can go about recovering them at your leisure.

1 part was delivered to The Barrow Downs
1 part was delivered to Tatalia
1 part was delivered to Avlee
2 parts were delivered to Deyja
2 heads were delivered to Bracada (as we did not know which model you prefered)"	In Chest with Abby Normal Head in Bracada Desert	Bill of Sale
1531	Missing Scroll Text 729		Empty Message Scroll
1532	Missing Scroll Text 730		Empty Message Scroll
1533	Missing Scroll Text 731		Empty Message Scroll
1534	Missing Scroll Text 732		Empty Message Scroll
1535	Missing Scroll Text 733		Empty Message Scroll
1536	"
My Priests,

I have some bad news.  It appears that our bid in Enroth has failed, and that our gambit against Catherine here in Erathia has also failed.  I don't expect your attempts to gain converts to be successful, so I would advise holing away as best as possible.  I believe that we can regroup our losses and strike back at the appropriate time, but you should not make yourself visible until that time.

Xenofex"	Temple of Baa	Letter from Xenofex
1537	Missing Scroll Text 735		Empty Message Scroll
1538	Missing Scroll Text 736		Empty Message Scroll
1539	Missing Scroll Text 737		Empty Message Scroll
1540	Missing Scroll Text 738		Empty Message Scroll
1541	Missing Scroll Text 739		Empty Message Scroll
1542	"
A Black Potion of Rejuvenation can be valuable in correcting the effects of aging.  To mix such a potion you need to find the correct combination of three of each of the base reagents. "	Rejuvenation	Rejuvenation Recipe
1543	"
A Black Potion of Pure Might is any adventurers dream.  The addition to permanent might can turn ANYONE into a fighting machine.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of four of any red reagent type plus two of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents.  "	Pure Might	Pure Might Recipe
1544	"
A Black Potion of Pure Accuracy is any archers dream.  The addition to permanent accuracy can turn ANYONE into a fighting machine.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of four of any yellow reagent type plus two of any red reagent type and one of the blue reagents.  "	Pure Accuracy	Pure Accuracy Recipe
1545	"
The Black Potion of Pure Personality will add to permanent Personality increasing the total spell points based off your Personality. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type plus four of any blue reagent type and  two of the yellow reagents.  "	Pure Personality	Pure Personality Recipe
1546	"
A Black Potion of Pure Endurance is any adventurers dream.  The addition to permanent endurance can turn ANYONE into a fighting machine, increasing their hit points far beyond normal.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type plus four of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents.  "	Pure Endurance	Pure Endurance Recipe
1547	"
The Black Potion of Pure Intellect will add to permanent intellect, increasing the total spell points based off your intellect. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type plus two of any blue reagent type and  four of the yellow reagents.  "	Pure Intellect	Pure Intellect Recipe
1548	"
The Black Potion of Pure Speed could be the answer for a party who just doesn't get the jump on the monsters.  The addition to permanent speed could be just what is needed to allow you recover and act before the monsters do.  You can never be too quick. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of four of any red reagent type plus two of any blue reagent type and one of the yellow reagents.  "	Pure Speed	Pure Speed Recipe
1549	"
The Black Potion of Pure Luck could be the answer for a party who is Disarm Trap Skill challenged.  The addition to permanent luck could be just what is needed to allow you to duck before a trap goes off.  You can never have too much luck. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type plus three of any blue reagent type and  three of the yellow reagents."	Pure Luck 748	Pure Luck Recipe
1550	"
The Black Potion of Slaying can turn any normal weapon into a weapon of dragon slaying.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type plus three of any blue reagent type and  two of the yellow reagents."	Slaying Potion 749	Slaying Potion Recipe
1551	"
The Black Potion of Stone to Flesh allows you to cure stoning yourself. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type plus two of any blue reagent type and  three of the yellow reagents."	Stone To Flesh 750	Stone To Flesh Recipe
1552	"
The White Potion of Might Boost temporarily boosts your strength just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type and two of any blue reagents."	Might Boost 751	Might Boost Recipe
1553	"
The White Potion of Intellect Boost temporarily boosts your intellect just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any blue reagent type and three of any yellow reagents."	Intellect Boost 752	Intellect Boost Recipe
1554	"
The White Potion of Personality Boost temporarily boosts your personality just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any blue reagent type and two of any yellow reagents."	Personality Boost 753	Personality Boost Recipe
1555	"
The White Potion of Endurance Boost temporarily boosts your endurance just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type and three of any blue reagents."	Endurance Boost 754	Endurance Boost Recipe
1556	"
The White Potion of Speed Boost temporarily boosts your speed just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type and two of any yellow reagents."	Speed Boost 755	Speed Boost Recipe
1557	"
The White Potion of Accuracy Boost temporarily boosts your accuracy just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type and three of any yellow reagents."	Accuracy Boost 756	Accuracy Boost Recipe
1558	"
The White Flaming Potion turns any normal weapon into a weapon of Flame. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type plus one of any blue reagent type and  two of the yellow reagents."	Flaming Potion 757	Flaming Potion Recipe
1559	"
The White Freezing Potion turns any normal weapon into a weapon of Frost. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type plus two of any blue reagent type and  one of the yellow reagents."	Freezing Potion 758	Freezing Potion Recipe
1560	"
The White Noxious Potion turns any normal weapon into a weapon of Poison. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type plus two of any blue reagent type and  two of the yellow reagents."	Noxious Potion 759	Noxious Potion Recipe
1561	"
The White Shocking Potion turns any normal weapon into a weapon of Sparks. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type plus one of any blue reagent type and  one of the yellow reagents."	Shocking Potion 760	Shocking Potion Recipe
1562	"
The White Swift Potion turns any normal weapon into a weapon of Swiftness. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type plus three of any blue reagent type and  one of the yellow reagents."	Swift Potion 761	Swift Potion Recipe
1563	"
The White Potion of Cure Paralysis eliminates the Paralysis condition. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type plus one of any blue reagent type and  three of the yellow reagents."	Cure Paralysis 762	Cure Paralysis Recipe
1564	"
The White Potion of Divine Restoration eliminates all conditions except stoned, dead or eradicated. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type plus one of any blue reagent type and  three of the yellow reagents."	Divine Restoration 763	Divine Restoration Recipe
1565	"
The White Potion of Divine Cure is more powerful than the Potion of Cure Wounds. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type and any three of the yellow reagents."	Divine Cure 764	Divine Cure Recipe
1566	"
The White Potion of Divine Power is more powerful than the Magic Potion. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any blue reagent type and any three of the yellow reagents."	Divine Power 765	Divine Power Recipe
1567	"
The White Potion of Luck Boost temporarily boosts your luck just when you need it. To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type and three of any blue reagents."	Luck Boost 766	Luck Boost Recipe
1568	"
The White Potion of Fire Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to fire inflicted damage.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type plus one of any blue reagent type and  three of the yellow reagents."	Fire Resistance 767	Fire Resistance Recipe
1569	"
The White Potion of Air Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to air inflicted damage.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type plus two of any blue reagent type and  one of the yellow reagents."	Air Resistance 768	Air Resistance Recipe
1570	"
The White Potion of Water Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to water inflicted damage.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type plus three of any blue reagent type and two three of the yellow reagents."	Water Resistance 769	Water Resistance Recipe
1571	"
The White Potion of Earth Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to earth inflicted damage.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of three of any red reagent type plus one of any blue reagent type and  two of the yellow reagents."	Earth Resistance 770	Earth Resistance Recipe
1572	"
The White Potion of Mind Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to damage inflicted by Mind Magic.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of two of any red reagent type plus three of any blue reagent type and  one of the yellow reagents."	Mind Resistance 771	Mind Resistance Recipe
1573	"
The White Potion of Body Resistance temporarily raises your resistance to damage inflicted by Body Magic.  To mix this potion you need the correct combination of one of any red reagent type plus two of any blue reagent type and  three of the yellow reagents."	Body Resistance 772	Body Resistance Recipe
1574		 773	Empty Message Scroll
1575		 774	Empty Message Scroll
1576		 775	Empty Message Scroll
1577		 776	Empty Message Scroll
1578		 777	Empty Message Scroll
1579		 778	Empty Message Scroll
1580		 779	Empty Message Scroll
1581			Empty Message Scroll
1582			Empty Message Scroll
1583			_quest/misc781
2120	III = 16 & IV = 4	D1	Name of Message
2121	Die Intruder!	T6	Name of Message
2122	"Silvertongue,

My spies report there is a small group of would-be heroes traveling about the land trying to put an end to our little Plan for a New World.  They are reportedly seeking permission to visit the Oracle in Free Haven.  You must not permit this to happen--If the Guardian awakens before our plan has matured it will spell the end for both of us.  Deny them permission to visit the Oracle, even if it reveals you to be a traitor.  We need the time your delay will buy us.  Oh yeah...Praise Baa.

Zenofex"	T7	Letter from Zenofex
2123	"Jarvis,

We have determined that the Mayor of Mist is third on our list of enemies, below only Charles d’Sorpigal and Jennica Bradley.  We need you to DELICATELY gain jurisdiction to patrol Mist and the surrounding island, and then to deal with the Mayor accordingly.  If this goes smoothly, then remove Charles and Jennica as well.  Handle this job with great care and you will be rewarded.

Gerrard Blackames  "	D7	Enemies List
2124	"Damian,

Congratulations on your new assignment.  The Shadow Guild wants you to ambush caravans passing from New Sorpigal to Ironfist or Free Haven.  Under no circumstances are you to divulge that you have any connection to us, or the deal is off and you will find out what happens to those who betray us.  Do as you are told and there won’t be any problems.

Prince of Thieves"	D6	Orders from the Shadow Gu
2125	"My Dear Sulman,                                Sep 17, 1152

You have done well, and I hereby promote you to High Priest of the Second Circle.  There is a sum of gold waiting for you in the hands of Andover Potbello in New Sorpigal that he will turn over to you if you tell him the Sandman sent you and show him the Seal on this letter.  Sandman…I like that.
  
The handling of the Roland affair was masterful, and I especially liked the snowstorm touch—it really put the Fear in him, didn’t it?  Superstitious fool!  His removal has moved our timetable ahead by at least two years and has spared us the trouble of assassinating him at a more delicate time.  All arrangements are in place.
  
My minions have engineered the recall of Queen Catherine to her homeland in Erathia to attend the funeral of her father.  She will not return this year, and that only leaves her worthless brat Nicolai and that idiot Regent Wilbur Humphrey running things at the palace.  
     
The people have begun to sense that something is wrong, that perhaps the gods are angry.  That perhaps…the Ironfists have lost the Mandate of Heaven.  Just a few more disasters and there may well be a full-scale rebellion! 

And we will be waiting at the breach, ready to step in and tell the sheep what to do and when to do it.  Already our temples spread across the land, offering aid to those displaced by disasters, and comfort to the bereaved... 

Yes.  Remain in New Sorpigal and stay out of sight.  When the time is right you will be contacted and given further instructions.  So take heart, and know that our plan proceeds smoothly and we will be ruling this world soon.  Your position in our hierarchy will be very high!

    --Zenofex"	1	The Letter
2126	"The contents of this scroll are difficult to understand, mostly because they are in a strange language.  A few of the diagrams, however, show the locations and patrol patterns for the devils."	Mini-dungeon	Devil Plans
2127	"The completion of this temple marks a proud day for the Church of the Sun!  We now have temples in every major area in the world.  This temple, surrounded and isolated by nature, will serve as a center of worship for our new followers- the natives of these isles.  May the glory of the Sun shine on you all and bless your work."	T4	Missive from the Archbish
2128	"Kergmond, 

You lack the skill in arms, the dedication, and most importantly, the ability to command to succeed as a Knight.  Your constant failures leave me no choice but to discharge you from the Knights of Enroth.  I would suggest you find a new profession, as you will never master the arts of warfare.

Osric Temper"	D16	Discharge Papers
2129	"I must commend you on your excellent work.  Continue to undermine the power of the Ironfists, and no one will be left to challenge us.  If you have the opportunity, dangle the carrot of the throne in front of as many people as you can.  If we play our cards right, the humans will kill each other off in a bloody war for the throne.  The Kreegan will reward their loyal followers well."	T6	Letter from Zenofex
2130	"Continue to work your dark enchantments on the Monolith.  If we are able to corrupt the Monolith fully, we will weaken Loretta’s druids to a point where we can take over.  This task is critical to our future plans, do not fail!"	D13	Letter from Cedric Druthe
2131	"Look to nature where civilization fails- the rocks and trees, the sky and earth all hold a power greater than man."	D13	Scrap of Paper
2132	"Snergle,

We have been unable to locate Rocklin anywhere.  Whatever hole he crawled into must have swallowed him.  I know you require his death to subjugate the rest of the dwarves, but we have searched all over Enroth and have not been able to locate him.

Lunstone"	D5	Letter to Snergle
2133	"Continue with your work in Castle Ironfist and New Sorpigal.  The buffoons in the south are unprepared for us, so you should be able to reap a wonderful harvest from them.  Remember to make your examples sharp and clear, and the sheep will follow you anywhere."	D3	Letter from the Prince of
2134	Message Scroll Text. 514		Name of Message
2135	"Gerrard,

Congratulations on your new promotion.  Now, with the Fraternal Order of Silver under your control, you will have greater freedom in seeking out those not hard enough on evil in Enroth.  Eventually, we hope to assist you in removing the most lax of all in the fight against evil, the Ironfists.  Continue to do your work, and your dreams shall be realized.

Zenofex"	D12	Elegant Letter
2136	"Prince,

Anthony Stone has decided to remove you once and for all.  I’m sure you will be seeing his men soon.  For your safety, I’ve prepared a place in the sewers underneath Free Haven for you.  Leave the Guildhall immediately and come to the sewers.  Once the heat has cleared you will be free to return to the Guildhall.

Fetzil"	D8	Letter to the Prince of T
2137	Message Scroll Text. 517		Name of Message
2138	"Attempting to use force on the Dragon Towers was a mistake, as the lesson at Kriegspire taught us.  We lost nearly a score of our mounts in the attack, and barely managed to deactivate the Tower.  Fortunately, our allies in Icewind Pass have located the Keys needed to turn off the Towers completely.  Soon we will be able to fly again, the peasants scattering before us as the hares scatter before the wolves.  I have been trapped in these caves for too long- even Goliath, my mount, is becoming restless.  With the Dragon Towers shut off, and the armies to the south delayed from reaching us, we will be able to ride free once more."	D20	Diary Page
2139	"Damn!  It appears that I left the Memory Crystal in Kriegspire when we fled from my minotaurs.  Never cross a bull with anything!  I should have known the emotional instability of humans and the bad temper of bulls would have resulted in a complete disaster.  I’ll have to make a trip to the castle to get the Crystal, but first I’ll need some creatures to help me get past the minotaurs.  Maybe if I were to create some sort of flying, magical eye…"	D19	Page from Agar's Journal
2140	"…don’t know how he does it, but Lord Eustace is able to disappear from the throne room so quickly sometimes.  I’m not even sure where he goes, there’s only one exit.  I thought there might be a secret exit from the room, but that’s just plain silly.  Besides, I’ve never found any triggers when I searched the…"	D15	Remains of a Journal
2141	"Good work on completing the first part of the plan.  With this keep, you’ll be able to prevent any interference from the south.  Use the Dragon Tower Keys to shut off the Dragon Towers, and we’ll be able to raid the towns again.  You will be well rewarded for the fine work you have done.  Come to our caves to the northwest when you are finished to collect your payment."	D15	Letter from the Dragon Ri
2142	"It appears that the crystal you have uncovered is not quite what we had anticipated, but we do acknowledge its use.  We will send a few Clerics to examine this crystal and then decide what to do.  Prepare for them in a few weeks."	T2	Letter from the Temple of
2143	"Rats!  Literally, rats.  We had perfected the Curse of the Endless Vermin, but one of the acolytes messed up, and now instead of New Sorpigal plagued, our temple has become infested with more vermin and insects and pests than I’ve seen anywhere.  We’ve tried for two days to reverse the curse and fight back the tides of annoying creatures, but we’ve failed.  Our only option now is to flee and construct a temple somewhere else in the south."	D2	Magical Ritual Notes
2144	Message Scroll Text. 524		Name of Message
2145	"We need at least 150% production from this mine for the next few weeks.  I’m going to need arms and armor for my soldiers to quell any discontent about my rule.  Continue to look for any of the more precious metals, like stalt and kergar.  Ignore the gold and gems for right now, we have enough money to last quite a while- the lack of weapons and armor will be our undoing."	D9	Orders from Snergle
2146	Message Scroll Text. 526		Name of Message
2147	"My studies with the Crystal of Terrax have grown tiring.  I don’t think I grasp enough of the basic magics to fully understand the lessons of the Crystal.  My time is growing short here, and I think I will be forced to continue my studies as a lich.  I refuse to let go and embrace death, not after my failure in the Succession Wars, and my failures in learning magic.  I’ll use the time I gain from lichdom to train myself more fully in magic and plot my revenge on the Ironfists for what they’ve done to Archibald and myself."	D11	Page from Corlagon's Diar
2148	"Brother, we soon will need whatever you can provide us in the way of weapons.  With Gharik gone, you have full control over the facilities of the Forge.  I need you to leverage that control into aid for us.  Soon, we will be able to strike at the heart of our enemies, and you will have a place with me as a ruler of Enroth.

Gerrard Blackames"	D18	Letter to Marcus
2149	"If it’s not one thing, it’s another.  Now, Archibald wants me to work on equipping his army with the best items I can create.  I’ve been forced to move here from Alamos so that I can work as quickly as possible in completing that request.  I’ve left the damned Crystal he was so concerned about with my colleagues in Alamos.  Hopefully, they’ll be able to reach some conclusion about it soon, though I wish Archibald would make up his mind on what he wants done."	D18	Scrap from Gharik's Journ
2150	"…remember that our goal is to become the sole druidic order in Enroth.  Nothing can stand in our path as we attempt to cleanse our ranks and remove all opposition.  To this end we will use both the Monolith and what we can find in this old Temple of the Moon to undermine the power of Loretta and her druids everywhere.  We must endure our hardships to grow stronger.

Cedric Druthers"	T5	Remnants of a Letter
2151	"Congratulations on successfully completing your transformation.  I hope you are doing well.  Even if you aren’t, I need the Memory Crystal researched and its information revealed.  I have no more time for delays or failures, and I expect you to meet with success where the others have failed.  I know you have a fetish for Crystals, and I expect that you will use your experience with them to finish this job quickly.  When you have the information, bring it to me at Castle Ironfist.  Perhaps we can use what you find to access the rest of the Crystals.

Archibald"	CD2	Letter to Terrax
2152	"The Ritual of Endless Night is perhaps one of the most difficult to perform.  Not because of what is physically required, but the mental and spiritual anguish that the Mage must endure.  Giving up your humanity, your soul, is not something easily done.  Only the most greedy, the most ambitious, or the heartless can overcome the strain involved."	CD2	Loose Page
2153	" ...tried to locate the warded doors.  William refused to take any of the amber we found as he believed it was cursed.  After being lost for almost a day, we found a strange creature that teleported us to the entrance.  In exchange for this service it drained William’s life force, but he managed to recover in a few days.  We are halting all further expeditions until we are able to determine…"	D4	Journal Fragment
2154	"Desist your current experiments into creature evolution and construction.  I need your efforts directed into learning the purpose of and the information contained in this Crystal.  The Oracle apparently uses these for some purpose, and I need you to determine exactly what that is.  This task is more important than creating flightless birds and bull-men or whatever it is you are doing now.

Archibald"	CD3	Letter to Agar
2155	"Please use your knowledge of arcane items and materials to divest this Crystal of the information it contains.  Use the full resources of Alamos if you have to, but do not fail me.  It is imperative that I know whatever information it is the Oracle is attempting to deny me.

Archibald"	CD1	Letter to Gharik
2156	"East:  Shadow Guildhall
West:  Shadow Guild Hideout
North:  Free Haven Thieves’ Guild
South:  Dragoons’ Caverns"	D8 Spiral	Spiral Instructions
2157	"When the Landing commences, Captain, take this code scroll to the central control chamber and speak activator key 'krik' when prompted.  All of the senior officers must present their code scrolls and keys to open the way.  Yours is the last key in the sequence."	Pyramid	Captain's Code
2158	"When the Landing commences, First Mate, take this code scroll to the central control chamber and speak activator key 'kcops' when prompted.  All of the senior officers must present their code scrolls and keys to open the way."	Pyramid	First Mate's Code
2159	"When the Landing commences, Navigator, take this code scroll to the central control chamber and speak activator key 'ulus' when prompted.  All of the senior officers must present their code scrolls and keys to open the way."	Pyramid	Navigator's Code
2160	"When the Landing commences, Communications Officer, take this code scroll to the central control chamber and speak activator key 'aruhu' when prompted.  All of the senior officers must present their code scrolls and keys to open the way."	Pyramid	Communication Officer's C
2161	"When the Landing commences, Engineer, take this code scroll to the central control chamber and speak activator key 'yttocs' when prompted.  All of the senior officers must present their code scrolls and keys to open the way."	Pyramid	Engineer's Code
2162	"When the Landing commences, Doctor, take this code scroll to the central control chamber and speak activator key 'yoccm' when prompted.  All of the senior officers must present their code scrolls and keys to open the way."	Pyramid	Doctor's Code
2163	"     
Here is the key to the combination door you requested.
       
     A.  Trap.
     B.  Opens door 4 and closes door 5.  
     C.  Opens door 5 and closes door 4.  
     D.  Opens door 1 and closes door 5.
     E.  Opens door 5 and closes door 1.
     F.  Opens door 2 and closes door 4.
     G.  Opens door 6.
     H.  Opens door 3 and closes door 2.
     I.    Opens door 2 and closes door 3.
     J.   Opens door 2 and closes door 1.
     K.  Opens door 6 and closes door 5.
     L.   Opens door 3 and closes door 4.
     M.  Maintenance.
     N.  Opens door 1 and closes door 2.
     O.  Opens door 5 and closes door 6.
     P.  Reset.

Sincerely, the Drawkcab Monks."	D1	Goblinwatch Code
2164	The ritual described on this scroll seems to be a complex magical formula requiring the caster to face the target from a distance and follow a lengthy and exacting series of steps.  You can't figure out what the effect of the spell will be once it's been cast.	D1	Ritual of the Void
2165	"I have hidden this letter here hoping it will be found by someone loyal to the Crown.  That I am even able to write it is a miracle--my captors were too stupid to take my writing materials--and I need many more miracles to survive this predicament.  All of my men were lost in the battle against the devils, leaving only Tanir, Ragnar, and myself alive.  Lord Ragnar is in a bad way, and I fear he will not survive the night.  Better for him, perhaps.

Since we have not yet been killed, I'm guessing we are being saved for something special.  Whatever it is, as long as there is life, there is hope.  They will probably carry Tanir and I from this awful place to another awful place to ransom us or torture us for information.  Whatever our fate, you, my loyal subject, must work to ensure the survival of the kingdom and our world.  These devils are a threat much worse than Archibald ever was, and will require the most desperate measures to defeat.  Take those measures, even if it means releasing my evil brother from his tomb of stone.  Above all, seek the advice of the Oracle in Free Haven.

I hear my captors coming down the hall!  Tell my wife and son I love them, and DON'T TRUST SULMAN! He is a traitor.  Good Luck!

--Roland Ironfist, King of Enroth
  "	D1	Roland's Journal
2166	Congratulations!  I hereby proclaim you all Super-Goobers!	D1	Proclamation
2167		D1	Name of Message
2168		D1	Name of Message
2169		D1	Name of Message
2170			Memory Crystal Alpha
2171			Memory Crystal Beta
2172			Memory Crystal Delta
2173			Memory Crystal Epsilon
2174			Pouch of Bat Guano
2175			Bathhouse Key
2176			Store Room Key
2177			Treasure Room Key
2178			Secret Door Key
2179			Chest Key
2180			Guild Key
2181			Bathhouse Key
2182			Store Room Key
2183		 564	Treasure Room Key
2184		 565	Warlord's Key
2185		 566	Storage Key
2186		 567	Cell Key
2187		 568	High Cleric's Key
2188		 569	Treasure Room Key
2189		 570	Teleporter Key
2190		 571	Hive Sanctum Key
2191		 572	Storage Key
2192		 573	Cell Key
2193		 574	Water Temple Key
2194		 575	Flame Door Key
2195		 576	Back Door Key
2196		 577	Bibliotheca Chest Key
2197		 578	VARN Chest Key
2198		 579	Sewer Key
2199			Fire Amulet
2200			Dark Containment
