Day of Week Profession Text															
#		Sunday topic	Sunday text	Monday topic	Monday text	Tuesday topic	Tuesday text	Wednesday topic	Wednesday text	Thursday topic	Thursday text	Friday topic	Friday text	Saturday topic	Saturday text
1	Smith	Rest	"What're ya gallivanting' around here for on a Sunday?  It's a day of rest, kid, REST, I say!"	Monday	I don't like Mondays.	Hiring Smiths	"Not to ruin my business, but to be honest, if you think about it, it really pays to only hire us smiths when you need us, rather than carrying us around wherever you go."	Magic Weapons	"Sometimes you can tell that a weapon is heavily enchanted just by looking at it.  If it's heavy and glitters a lot, it's expensive, and probably very powerful."	Abdul's Discounts	"Don't let the name fool you:  Abdul's discount stores offer really great quality for low, low prices.  He also didn't pay me to say that on Thursdays.  Honest."	Knight's Paradise	"The best all around weapon shop in Enroth is the Knight's Paradise, run by Eric Regent.  You can't buy better weapons anywhere else in the kingdom. "	Arms Smugglers	Word is that the goblins are looking to buy weapons for raids on human towns.  I hear the regent has a sizeable bounty on the heads of any who deliver weapons to those evil little toads.
2	Armorer	Magic Armor	"There are two kinds of magic armor– armor that increases your protection, and armor that is lighter and easier to wear.  A few rare kinds of armor have both of those properties."	The Enchanted Hauberk	"The best armor shop in all of Enroth is the Enchanted Hauberk.  The proprietor's name is Teddy, but he hates to be called that.  Safer to refer to him as Theodore."	Hiring smiths	"Not to ruin my business, but to be honest, if you think about it, it really pays to only hire us smiths when you need us, rather than carrying us around wherever you go."	Shields	"Don't overlook the defensive value of a good shield.  Yeah, I know a two-handed weapon hits a lot harder, but what do you do if you miss, or if that monster just doesn't go down on the first swing?  That's when a good shield comes into play.  It'll save your life one day, mark my words!"	Merchants	"Always have your best merchant do the talking when you buy and sell stuff through merchants.  If they can make a few more gold pieces off an unwary customer, not a one of them will hesitate, believe you me!"	Dwarves	"You know, metal for arms and armor used to be a lot cheaper before Snergle wrested the dwarven throne away from Rocklin, the old King of the Dwarves.  Sure would be nice if someone fixed Snergle's wagon."	Dragons' Gold	Most any dragon that has a lair is absolutely loaded with gold.  They get it from all the paladins who try to kill them to make a name for themselves.
3	Alchemist	Recharging Wands	"When a wand runs out of charges, you've lost the value of the wand.  They can never be recharged, but it's usually possible to find a sucker to buy the wand at full price  just before the charges run out."	Magic Shops	The best magic shop in the kingdom is Mighty Magicks.  It is possible to find there the most unusual and powerful enchanted items for sale anywhere.	Lloyd's Beacon items	"If you ever find an item containing the Lloyd's Beacon spell, remember that the locations you are able to transport to are based per person.  That means that even a non-spell using person could have a location that they can transport to with the use of a Lloyd's Beacon item."	Broken Items	"Statistics show that most items are broken when the wielder or wearer falls unconscious from damage, or where a monster has a particularly bruising blow to deliver.  The single best way to prevent broken items is to just not be knocked unconscious.  Get healed before it's too late."	Equinoxes and Solstices	"Many unusual magical effects occur during annual astrological events, such as the two solstices and equinoxes.  Eclipses, midnight, noon, comets; all these things can be magically significant.  The significant dates this year are:  March 20th, June 21st, September 23rd, and December 21st."	Magic Guilds	"Once you are a member of a particular type of magic guild, you won't need to keep buying membership into different branches of the same guild.  A member of the Guild of Fire, for instance, need not buy membership in another Fire Guild in order to take advantage of their services."	Cursed items	"Some of the magic items you find around the world are cursed.  Almost none are pure curses, but many have side effects you won't like much.  You should carefully weigh the side effects against the benefits an item offers before using it."
4	Scholar	Potions	Combining potions in the right proportions can achieve formulas that do very unusual things.  The Guild of Alchemists closely guards the secrets of which potions have which effects.	Treasures	"Be careful with even ordinary objects.  If something is magical, get an expert like me to identify it before you sell it for pennies on the gold piece of its true worth.  You can be surprised by what there is to find out there, and you might sell off something very useful."	Herbs	"There are three plants that can be used to make the three basic potions.  They are poppysnaps, phirna root, and widoweeps berries.  Just mix the crushed flowers, roots, or berries respectively with water to get the potion."	Magic Abilities	"Most items you find will boost or enhance some basic characteristic about you, but a few will have a more complex effect.  It is these that are truly valuable, and their names are usually in the form of 'item of ' as in wand of lightning bolts."	Black and White	"In the land of Enroth, the shades of black and white have special magical significance.  If an item or a potion is colored white, it usually means that it provides a powerful beneficial effect without any sort of negative side effect.  If it is black, it provides the most powerful of effects, but with some sort of unpleasant side effect.  Be careful!"	The Island of Mist	"Albert Newton is the Lord of Mist, and he is truly the patron of all who hold dear the mystical arts.  If you have a question about magic, Mist is where you should look for an answer."	High Noon	Of course you know that spells cast at high noon draw their power directly from the sun.  It is in this way that the mightiest of magicians can afford the power it takes to enchant the magical items you find throughout the land of Enroth.
5	Guide	Civilization	"I don't have much taste for civilization, but you can rest assured that more goods and services will be available on the east coast of Enroth than anywhere else– particularly Free Haven."	Western Wastes	"The lands to the far west of the continent used to be green and fertile, but have wasted to an unhappy land of cracked earth, bad smells, and barren landscapes."	Castle Kriegspire	"Castle Kriegspire was originally built to study the extinct volcano in which it rests, but recent activity from that mountain has chased all humans from the castle.  It hasn't been destroyed yet, but monsters are the only ones that dare live inside it."	Volcanic Island	"There is an island southwest of Enroth where people say is the headquarters of the Temple of Baa.  Why they would pick such a remote location for such a popular religion is beyond me, though."	Abdul's Discount Island Resort	"Everyone has heard of Abdul's chain of discount stores.  Well, he also has an island resort where the old and tired can be rejuvenated for a hefty fee.  They say that Abdul himself lives on his resort Island and rarely visits the mainland."	Swamps	"Beware travel in the swamps south of Castle Temper.  The undead are said to roam about freely, unafraid of the living or the sun."	Desert	"The desert is a land that should be avoided by all but the mightiest sorcerers and knights.  Filled with giants and dragons, nearly all who visit do not return.  Rumor has it that a strange pyramid in the desert holds untold riches and secrets waiting to be unearthed by some brave souls."
6	Tracker	Horses	Horses provide an excellent means of travelling if you can afford the cost.  All of the towns and castles  on the mainland have stables where you can hire horses.	Eastern Seaboard	"Most civilized areas you'll find are in the east.  While there are some small towns and villages located to the west, don't count on finding many."	Dragons	The dragons from Dragonsand have taken advantage of the devils' attacks and have spread out from the desert into the nearby wastelands. They are even rumored to be as north as Kriegspire.	Frozen Highlands	Rumor has it the westernmost parts of the Frozen Highlands are overrun with powerful creatures.  Maybe even dragons!	Druids 	Druidic orders flourish in the grasslands near Silver Cove.  These druids will often arrange stone circles to perform ceremonies or worship nature.	Magic Portals	"I never seen one, but I've heard stories of magical portals– doorways– that lead instantly from one part of Enroth to another.  That would take all the fun out of travelling, wouldn't it?"	Icewind Pass	The pass leading to White Cap and Caste Stromgard has recently been taken by a group of ogres and greedy humans working together.
7	Pathfinder	Magic Transportation	"Mages are so lazy, they've formulated several spells to transport people instantly from place to place.  These spells are good, but there's nothing like a REAL journey."	Mire of the Damned	This ghastly place is named for all of the undead that prowl it.  Rumor has it that people killed in the mire return as undead guardians of the place.  	Enemies 	"Some monsters can be reasoned with.   If you know the charm spell, for instance, you can make even the most ferocious of beasts temporarily friendly.  Remember– you don't have to kill everything you meet.  Sometimes just getting past them is enough."	Paradise Valley	"Not anymore it isn't!  Since the devils came, Paradise Valley is a barren wasteland infested with hundreds of devils.  No one goes in there and survives!"	Sentinels 	The mountains that make up the gap that leads to Paradise Valley are called the Sentinels.  Folk tales suggest they protected the valley from evil; now they serve as a warning to anyone foolish enough to want to enter.	Dragonsand	"Aptly named, Dragonsand is full of both dragons and sand.  I think the most powerful dragons are more than a match for the devils, or the devils would have long ago taken over the desert."	Blackshire	"I've heard stories of a horrible curse that has possessed the town. Every time I've visited, however, everything seems normal."
8	Sailor	Water Walking Spells	"I've heard there are sorcerers for hire who can cast the Walk on Water spell if you can't do it yourself.  They charge a lot, though."	Travel Seasons	"There are some places you can't get to by boat, during different times of the year.  You should plan your trips carefully to avoid inconvenience."	Loretta Fleise	"Lady Fleise is the Queen of the Merchants, and she has built a huge fortune by controlling shipping prices."	The Royal Yacht	"King Roland keeps his own personal royal yacht, the Queen Catherine, in a lake just west of Castle Ironfist.  She is a mighty ship, capable of going nearly anywhere quickly, but only the king or the regent can give permission for someone to use her."	Islands	"There are many islands that can only be reached with a combination of boat travel and the Walk on Water spell.  Many of them are inhabited by the most horrible of monsters, but often the finest treasures can be found on them."	Buried Treasure	"It is said that one of the islands east of Free Haven hides the buried treasure of Silveka the pirate.  Now, I know these stories are a dime dozen, but I swear this one is true!  If only the map could be found…"	Erathia	"Although no shipping companies are currently offering the service, Erathia, homeland of Queen Catherine Ironfist, can be reached in a voyage of three weeks or so, depending on the season.  Ain't never been there, but they tell me it's nice."
9	Navigator	Travel Seasons	You need to be careful when planning your boat travels.  Certain areas are too dangerous to sail to during parts of the year.	Sea Serpents	"Many areas of the oceans are home to giant sea serpents.  Though not much danger to ships, they can be lethal to people, water walking or even bystanders on the coast."	Pirates	"Occasionally some coastal towns or slow ships are attacked by pirates.  Fortunately, pirates are rare, but their attacks can affect prices in the towns they plunder."	Bootleg Bay	"Many small islands fill Bootleg Bay.  I've heard rumors of temples on the islands, and even pirate hideouts!  I've never seen either, but I can imagine the amount of treasure a pirate would have accumulated."	Boat Travel	Travel by boat isn't instantaneous; it takes time.  Don't forget to factor in your travel times if you're running on a deadline.	Isle of the Hermit	The Isle of the Hermit is a fairly large volcanic isle in the southwest of Enroth. No one goes there and it's more barren than even the wastelands.  It was named when Lord Terrance made a joke about a hermit living there to get away from it all.	Water Walking 	"Water walking is nice and all, but it doesn't beat a good ship and a good crew.  Not only are you slower than a ship, you have to worry about the spell wearing off, and you have to worry about sea serpent attacks.  Boats are the best way to travel by water."
10	Healer	Disease and Poison	"It is important to get treatment for diseases and poisons.  The longer they go untreated, the harder they are to cure.  Getting poisoned or diseased more than once worsens your situation."	Unconscious	"If you are wounded enough, you will fall unconscious.  Taking a wound while unconscious almost always leads to death."	Eradication	"Certain monsters and spells can reduce your body to ashes, making efforts to raise the dead difficult.  We healers call this eradication.  Only special temples and spells can cure eradication."	Death	"It is important to raise someone from the dead as soon as possible, if you intend to do it.  If you take too long, death may require more than one spell to fix.  This can get expensive!"	Free Haven's Temple	"There once was a temple built by Lord Stone in the city of Free Haven, but it was burned down by vandals a few years ago.  The quality of the altar there was so good that it permitted the priests to raise anyone from the dead, even eradicated bodies."	Necromancy	"All of the Necromancers in the Kingdom have been banished, happily, except the ones who took their black art too far and became liches.     The worst of those liches, Archibald's former general Lord Corlagon, has taken up residence in the south eastern portion of the Mire of the Damned."	Resting	"Resting only really works well in a comfortable place like an inn.  There you can regain lost strength and magic, and heal from most of your wounds.  If you must rest in the wilderness, be sure to have enough food!  Hungry people gain no benefit from rest."
11	Expert Healer	Power Cure	"The highest level spell in the school of body, Power Cure is an effective way to heal the entire party quickly.  One Power Cure heals more damage faster than 4 smaller healing spells."	Alchemy Basics	"Mixing poppysnaps, phirna root, or widoweeps berries with water in an empty potion bottle will make a simple potion.  These simple potions have limited beneficial effects, but are stronger than the herbs by themselves."	Healing Alternatives	"You don't need a powerful spell caster with you for healing.  All the towns and castles have temples with healers.  You can make healing potions, find items with healing spells in them, or even magical fountains or shrines that can heal you."	Alchemy Basics	It's possible to create more complicated potions by mixing the simple potions together to create compound potions.  Compound potions are stronger than simple potions and have slightly different effects.	First Aid	"A low level body spell, First Aid is very efficient in terms of its casting cost, but slow.  If you have plenty of time, it's the best way to heal damage."	Alchemy Basics	"It IS possible to combine compound potions with simple or compound potions to try and make complex potions.  Though complex potions are the strongest you can make, the process is dangerous.  Mixing the wrong potions can cause violent reactions and set off dangerous explosions."	Healing Touch	"Though not as effective as other healing spells, Healing Touch is in the school of spirit, which makes it easier for paladins to learn.  Also, body spells don't work in certain areas, so you will need to use Healing Touch instead of spells like First Aid or Power Cure."
12	Master Healer	Resting	"You generally have more hit points than spell points, so it is often faster to heal yourself as best as possible with magic, then rest.  You can cut down on your resting times quite a bit this way."	Advanced Alchemy	"Let me tell you the effects of the simple potions.  Red potions are minor healing, blue potions are minor spell point gain, and yellow potions are a boost to all seven statistics."	Guild of the Self	The largest Guild of the Self was founded in Silver Cove.	Advanced Alchemy	"Simple potions combine to create compound potions.  Orange potions temporarily boost your armor class, green potions temporarily boost your resistances, and purple potions serve as antidotes to any poison."	Divine Intervention	"The pinnacle of light spells, Divine Intervention does just that– calls for Eyla, goddess of healing, to intercede on your behalf and heal your group to full life.  Her price, a part of your life-force causing you to age a few years, is sometimes well worth her attention."	Advanced Alchemy	"I know only one formula for a complex potion– the combination of a compound potion with either a simple or compound potion.  Mix a potion of resistance with a potion of cure poison, then take that potion and mix it with a potion of protection, and you end up with a potion of divine cure."	Shared Life	Shared Life is an excellent way to keep weaker party members alive when your party is being assaulted with area affect spells.  This spell combined with Power Cure can keep everyone alive when you get in over your head.
13	Teacher	Experience	"As your level of experience increases, so does the amount of experience you need to improve.  You'll get more benefit from a magical effect or reward that increases your level directly later in your life because of this rule."	Skills	"Because skills get so difficult to learn once you've achieved a high level in them, it is much more efficient to learn many skills to a moderate level, rather than a couple of skills to a high level."	Experts and Masters	"Whenever you have the opportunity, it pays to become an expert or master in any given skill you've been practicing.  Experts and masters enjoy benefits and effects out of the reach of people who just learn the basic skill."	Learning Spells	"Everyone has a spell book, but many lack the ability to fill it with even the simplest of spells.  If you can somehow get a spell into your spell book, you can cast it as long as you have enough spell power."	Training Centers	"Training centers are the best way to increase your level, but they can get awfully expensive later on.  Personally, I recommend Abdul's Discount Training centers to avoid excessive training costs."	Thief and Mercenary Guilds	"Thief and Mercenary Guilds are the places you go to learn all kinds of skills.  Different guilds teach different skills, so if one doesn't have what you're looking for, try the guilds in a different town."	Teachers	"Many teachers do not want to be flooded by students, so they have moved to remote locations.  You might have to look around quite a bit to find them.  Generally, expert teachers know where their master teachers are."
14	Instructor	Nicolai	"Prince Nicolai shows incredible perception and creativity for his young age, much like his father did.  I don't think people give him enough credit– they're more concerned with his age than his ability."	Kriegspire	"Kriegspire, one of the centers of magical experimentation, has been swallowed by an enormous volcano.  Surely one of their experiments must have gone completely awry."	Opponents	"It's important to fight creatures challenging to you.  If you fight weak creatures, you don't learn much experience, and if you fight hard creatures, you run the risk of dying.  The creatures at your skill level are the most rewarding to learn from."	Loretta Fleise	"A cunning woman– it's easy to forget how intelligent she is when dealing with her.  Aside from gaining vast amounts of wealth, she's mastered several skills, and is associated with a few of the druidic orders of the north."	Oracle	"No teacher in the world can equal the Oracle in Free Haven.  The only catch is that to visit the Oracle, you need to have the unanimous approval of the High Council."	Quests	"Quests aren't anything magical, they're simply opportunities...  Opportunities to learn a great deal or to make a great deal of money.  Try not to pass up the chances you get."	Fame	"Fame, in many ways, is an accumulation of the experiences you have and how you've managed to share with others.  Quests and brave deeds against monsters can make you famous."
15	Arms Master	Weapons	"It pays to know how to use two or three different kinds of weapons, kid.  That way you can change tactics in battle if an opponent isn't getting hurt by your favorite fish gutter, if ya know what I mean!"	Battle Tactics	"The three most important things to remember in a battle are:  Don't get surrounded, concentrate on killing a single enemy before moving on to another, and don't be afraid to run.  No shame in living another day!"	Armor	Always wear armor if you can!  Always!  And spend a little effort to learn to use it or you'll wallow like a pregnant yak in a fight!	Initiative	"Pay attention to the advantages of small, quick weapons.  If you're good enough with them, you can attack twice as often as you could with a larger, heavier weapon."	Combo weapons	One advantage of the sword and the dagger is that skilled users can wield a blade in their left hands instead of using a shield.  Even a fluff head like yourself should understand why that could help.	Bows	"Try to equip everyone in your group with a bow, crossbow, or some other ranged weapon.  You can do a lot of damage to an opponent as they approach you, and ranged weapons let you attack flying creatures that otherwise couldn't be hurt."	The Glory of the Mace	"Personally, my favorite weapon is the mace.  When you get good at it, you learn to strike at hard parts on your opponent so that it bounces off instead of sinking in.  Saves time.  Anyway, when someone gets hit with a mace, it can stun them so bad that they stop fighting back.  And that's a fine thing."
16	Weapons Master	Osric Temper	"Osric is not only a master warrior, but an ingenious general.  I'm glad to see that he's not taking the recent attacks by the devils lightly.  He's already working on ways to fight back, but the situation looks pretty grim.  If anyone can come up with a way to fight them, however, it's Osric."	Magic Weapons	"A finely crafted weapon is a rare find, but a magic weapon is a treasure indeed.  Magic weapons are often more damaging, faster, and sometimes even have spells imbedded into them.  Your skill is important, but having a great weapon certainly doesn't hurt either."	Ancient Weapons	"A man had wandered through not too long ago proclaiming to have knowledge of ancient weapons, the likes of which have not been seen since the Time of Wonders.  We laughed him and his insane ramblings right out of town."	Specialization	"Some warriors prefer to specialize in one weapon above all others.  This training makes them incredible fighters, but it has a few weaknesses.  They may not be able to find an awesome weapon of the type they've specialized in, or they may be fighting against an opponent that is more resistant to their type of attacks.  Specialists are very good, but they shouldn't travel alone."	Magic	"I know how easy it is for us warriors to scoff at the weak mages out there, but they can make themselves useful at times.  Many of their spells can increase your fighting ability by making you faster, or hit better, or more resistant to damage.  As long as they can pull their own weight, mages make excellent travelling companions."	Generalization	"Most warriors like to train in a variety of weapons.  Usually, one weapon is trained higher than the others, but few are ignored.  This provides great flexibility in combat, because you can use the weapon that is most effective against the enemy you face."	Staves	"Never underestimate the staff!  Most people associate the staff with a mage, but that's not always the case.  Although you cannot use a shield with a staff, as you become more skilled you'll find that staves are the best defensive weapon around.  Not only that, but they have enough weight to stun people that are hit with it.  It's one of the best all around weapons available."
17	Apprentice	Mental Attacks	"If you're facing an opponent that can't be put down with direct damage spells, try a mental attack spell, or something that freezes them in place.  This can often give the warriors in your group time to pound the enemy into the ground while distracted by your spell."	Elemental Spells	"When fighting in a place that is very hot or cold, try using the opposite kind of spell on your enemies.  Often they are resistant or immune to the element they're used to living in."	The Wonders of Mass Distortion	"This spell is my personal favorite.  It works best on the strongest and toughest monsters by making them heavier, and smashes lots of important internal organs.  It seems to cut their health in half, and with the strong ones, that can be quite a bit."	Spells of protection	Be sure to use spells of protection when you have them.  They can really reduce the heartache of being reduced to ash by dragon fire or electrocuted by enemy sorcerer lightning attacks.	Travelling Spells	"Travelling spells represent the most important class of spells for all magic-using people.  Not only do they let you get to places you couldn't get to without  magic, but they let you visit things like health and magic-boosting fountains in remote areas, and use those abilities in dangerous dungeons and castles where you need them."	Magic resistance	"Some monsters are resistant to nearly all magic spells.  If you run into one of these monsters, don't despair– use your magic to heal your warriors and strengthen their blows."	Dark Containment	"All of the schools of magic have eleven spells, but only ten can be found in the guilds of darkness.  The missing eleventh spell is called something like Dark Holding or Dark Containment.  No one alive seems to have learned it, and the guilds are very anxious to find it.  "
18	Mystic	Gharik	"Gharik attempted to recreate some of the weapons from the Time of Wonders in his forge.  He was never successful, but a number of his experiments provided useful information for enchanting weapons and summoning creatures."	Liches	Some sorcerers have cheated death itself in their attempts to gain power.  These sorcerers trade their lives for eternal life as an undead.   I can't imagine the lust for power that would cause someone to trade their soul.  Liches are powerful and determined; you should be careful fighting them. 	Twillen	"The greatest magical researcher since the Silence, Twillen's age has finally caught up with him.  The last I heard, he was searching for a way to find his youth again.  I don't think even he can counter the forces of nature."	Agar	"A powerful sorcerer, Agar tried in vain to create powerful creatures as his slaves so that he could conquer Enroth.  His minions were either too stupid to be of use, or too smart to be controlled."	Flying Eyes	"Agar's 'finest' creations, these floating heads have surprising intelligence and great power at their command.  Their gaze is enough to put you to sleep.  Rumors abound of even more powerful eyes that can cause panic or even complete insanity."	Albert Newton	"Albert Newton is a brilliant magical researcher, but his research always seems to take a long time to complete.  He certainly knows quite a bit about sorcerers and their magics, however.  If you have any questions about that, he's the person to talk to."	Elementals	"Summoned by mages to guard areas or items, elementals are beings composed of one of the four primary elemental forces:  air, earth, fire, or water.  Elementals can freely use magics of their element, so be wary if you should battle them."
19	Spell Master	Elemental Magic Guilds	"A few Guilds of the Elements exist.  Though their knowledge of the individual elements isn't as pervasive as the more specialized guilds, they are an excellent resource to broaden your knowledge of all the elements."	Light Magic	"Light magic makes up one half of the Mirrored Path.  Light cannot exist without dark, nor dark without light.  The spells in the school of light are what most people would call 'holy.'  It is difficult to find training in this path, but the rewards are certainly worth the effort."	Dark Magic	"Dark magic makes up one half of the Mirrored Path.  Dark cannot exist without light, nor light without dark.  'Evil' is the word most commonly associated with the school of dark, but that's not true.  A school, like a weapon, isn't good or evil by itself–  it's morality is determined by its use."	Terrax's Crystal	Corlagon took Terrax's Crystal to his estate for studying when he began learning the Necromantic arts.  I imagine the crystal is still there.	Self Magic Guilds	"A few Guilds of the Self exist in the lands.  Combining knowledge of mind, spirit, and body, these guilds offer a more generalized study than any of the individual guilds can offer.  Their knowledge of the individual schools isn't nearly as complete, however."	Magical Staves	I've heard tales of a powerful magical staff that boosts your magical reserves and can strike as swiftly as the wind itself. 	Archibald	"Archibald, Roland's brother, mastered many magical arts and accomplished himself as a powerful sorcerer before his demise.  No one seems to know where he is buried, though.  It's as though he disappeared after Roland's ascension to the throne."
20	Trader	Gold	"The essence of life!  Gold oils the squeaking wheel, silences the witness, or loosens his tongue.  Gold puts food on the table and wood in the fire.  How I love thee, O mighty gold.  Never run out of gold, my friend.  Never!"	Merchants	Merchants respond to a customer's skill in bargaining.  It's important to only use your best negotiator when you buy or sell anything with a  merchant. 	Banks	"Although banks in Enroth don't pay interest, they protect your money from theft and loss.  You should consider putting your money in a bank before embarking on any long or dangerous trips."	Diplomacy	"Diplomacy is the skill that makes people feel more favorable towards you.  If you must speak with someone who doesn't seem to like you, make sure that you use your most diplomatic person to do the talking."	Abdul's Discounts	"Don't let the name fool you:  Abdul's Discount stores offer really great quality for low, low prices.  He also didn't pay me to say that on Thursdays.  Honest."	General Stores	"General stores will buy  nearly anything, but give terrible prices.  If a general store is the only store around and you need to sell something fast, go ahead and use it.  But if it can wait, you'll do better selling something to a more specific store."	Prices	Skilled merchants run many of the stores in Enroth.  You must be careful when buying and selling to make sure you are not getting ripped off.
21	Merchant	Speculation	"The most important part of being a merchant can't be taught.  You need to learn to notice a good buy when you see one, and make the good deals when you can.  If you pick up something for cheap in one town, there's a good chance you can sell it somewhere else for a profit."	Dragoons	A group of bandits called the Dragoons are now preying on merchants travelling between Free Haven and New Sorpigal.	Gold	"Ahhh, the point of being a merchant!  Gold makes the world move.  Economies bustle with exchange of gold, from markets to farms, to towns, to kingdoms– everywhere!  Even kings spend the lives of their men more readily than they will their gold.  Being a merchant is the way to accumulate wealth, and that wealth gives me a status that most people will never have."	Abdul	I wish I knew who Abdul is.  His shops consistently offer low prices– he must be a bandit trying to launder money.  I can't see any other reason to have the low prices he does.	Shadow Guild	"In the north, businesses are controlled by a few monopolies that prevent competition by any means necessary, even by extortion.  The Shadow Guild and the Thieves' Guild have already started to clash over rights in areas like Silver Cove and Free Haven."	Stores	"Not all shops are the same!  Some stores offer lowly goods, while shops in other towns have excellent wares for sale.  You'll need to look around and find the good shops for yourself, but keep in mind:  You get what you pay for.  Great equipment never comes cheap."	Banks	"It's dangerous to carry a lot of money with you.  Banks provide a safe place to store large amounts of money.  Though they don't credit you with interest, you don't have to worry about pickpockets.  That's good enough for me."
22	Scout	Devils	"I traveled to the lands west of Blackshire recently, and what I saw chilled my blood.  Devils running about a ruined, blighted landscape, killing any humans they ran across.  Something is terribly wrong.  I just don't know why someone isn't doing something about it!"	Star Lake	"A while back I was exploring the Star Lake area, and saw a bunch of statues on the island at the center of the lake.  They were marvelously carved– the most lifelike statues I've ever seen.  I wonder who put them there?"	Desert Villagers	"There is a small village around Abdul's Desert Resort that sells some of the finest magic equipment I've ever seen.  Heaven knows where they get it, but it sure is nice to know that stuff is available there."	Sweet Water	"I'm certain the devils destroyed the town of Sweet Water!  It was the most northwestern town in Enroth, and certainly one of the most beautiful.  Not many people made it out that way to visit, but now you don't hear anything about the place.  "	Mire of the Damned	"Take my word for it when I say the Mire is a bad place to find yourself at night.  The Necromancer's Guild 'retired' to the swamp after Archibald's defeat in the Succession War, and evidence of their handiwork is walking around the swamp freely."	Castle Darkmoor	"This foul place is the center of the most serious crimes against nature the Necromancer's Guild has been committing.  My firm scout's advice is to avoid, avoid, avoid!"	The Pyramid 	"In the center of Dragonsand you can find a pyramid marking the Tomb of the Ship, or so they say.  I've scoured the desert and found nothing but dragons and titans to run from.  That doesn't mean it's not there– I had to get out of that desert while the getting was good.  A very dangerous place!"
23	Counselor	Law and Jail	"Compared to many countries, Enroth is a very tolerant kingdom.  Nonetheless, you can end up in jail if you commit enough crimes and are foolish enough to show your face to a guard.  "	The Ironfist Code	"The law of the land is simple:  Do not murder, do not threaten, do not bribe.  Begging is frowned upon, as is keeping company with known criminals.  Reputation is everything."	Bandits	Beware of highwaymen plying the roads between towns.  Wise travelers will take advantage of Enroth's many high quality banking establishments to avoid being completely robbed by these parasites.	Thief Guilds	"There are two major thief guilds in the land.  One, the 'sanctioned' one, can be found in some of the major towns in the kingdom.  The other, guild is called the Shadow Guild.  They are much more violent and cruel than the sanctioned guilds, and I'm sure the king would put them down if he had the time."	Jail Sentences	"You can avoid a lengthy jail sentence for any crimes you've been committing by receiving forgiveness at the temples.  If you run into a guard before receiving forgiveness for significant crimes, you could be looking at a year in jail, or even longer.  "	City Councils	"City councils are always looking for people to take care of local jobs for them.  If you need a little extra cash, try dropping by and asking about work.  There's a good chance they'll have something for you."	Low Character	"I do not like assassins, or men of low character.  And it seems that both types of criminal are spreading through the land like the plague these days."
24	Barrister	Negotiating	"Diplomacy is the key to negotiation, and negotiation is the key to many closed doors in the world.  You must be able to sip champagne with the highest lords and guzzle ale with the lowest scum if you want to succeed."	Lords	"Enroth is ruled by a king, and the council of five lords.  These six people handle the laws, rules, and matters of state for all of Enroth."	Underworld	"A whole culture of underworld people exists, though it is sometimes difficult to find.  Thieves and criminals have their own organizations and codes, and are surprisingly good at spreading information.  Though you can't always trust them, it's wise to use them as best you can."	Council Members	"The lords themselves are too busy to handle most affairs of state, so they have council members that attend the High Council in Free Haven for them.  Each lord has one council member, and these six people make most of the laws of the state, in the names of their respective lords."	Monsters	"Many monsters won't reason with you, no matter how eloquently you phrase your requests.  You need to recognize hopelessly aggressive monsters and be rid of them as fast as possible."	Reputation	"Your reputation affects how people deal with you.  Most people aren't going to trust you or confide in you if your reputation isn't good.  You'll only find friends from thieves and the like, and do you really want them as friends?  You'll need to help others and follow the laws to bolster your reputation."	Monsters 	Some creatures you'll run into can be reasoned with if you have a fear spell available.  You can avoid unnecessary and wasteful injury by scaring off your enemies rather than simply fighting with them.
25	Tinker	Find a Penny	"Find a penny, pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck!"	Locks	"When someone has a chest or other lock they don't want you to get into, they'll usually trap it rather than lock it.  Everyone knows that a determined thief will eventually get through a lock, but not every determined thief will survive the trap once he opens the chest."	Secret Doors	"I've build a few secret doors in my day, and I think I can safely say that some of them are virtually indistinguishable from a plain old wall.  If you have the Wizard Eye spell, you can use it to look at the map it makes for you and logically work out whether or not a section of wall is part of a secret door."	Magic Armor	"Plate armor is, of course, the strongest kind of armor available.  There is a legendary suit of armor called Zeus, and it can imbue its wearer with extraordinary strength, but it doesn’t do much for the personality.  "	Undesirables	"Many people don't really care for tinkers because we wander and do odd jobs that guilds would like to charge a lot for.  But you like me, don't you?"	Chimney Sweeps	Try to stay close to chimney sweeps– they're good luck!	Highwaymen	"Sometimes bandits and highwaymen will accept you if they don't think you're 'upstanding citizens.'  The weak, however, are always robbed."
26	Locksmith	Chests	Most of the great treasure you'll find will be locked away in a chest or box.  It only makes sense to protect your valuables.	Magical Locks 	"Some locks are bound by magical enchantments.  You won't be able to open them, no matter how fine a locksmith you are, unless you have the magical key necessary."	Thief	"Hey!  I'm a legitimate locksmith, not some shady burglar or thief.  I help protect peoples' belongings, not steal them."	Jerrad	"I've heard rumors that Zoltan Phelps lost a valuable possession to a group of bandits.  If he had taken proper precautions and had used my services, that wouldn't have happened."	Danger	"With all the troubles that have been going on, business has been great for me.  People have found the need to lock up their possessions to try and protect them from marauders or looters.  It's good to know I can give people at least a small sense of security in these dark times."	Thieves' Guild	Apparently there's a new Thieves' Guild called the Shadow Guild that's competing with the established guilds across the lands.	Traps	"You must be careful when opening some locks.  Many people don't consider a lock enough of a deterrent, so they will trap their doors or chests to try and frighten off or kill a would-be thief."
27	Fool	Talking	It is better to talk and let them think you a fool than to keep silent and prove it!	Temple of Baa	Have you heard of the Temple of Baa?  They're wonderful!  My family was hungry and they fed us when no one else would.  All we had to do was promise to come back!	Wise Men	A pipe gives a wise man something to think about and a fool something to stick in his mouth.	A Fool's services	"I know I charge a lot to travel with, but I'm worth it!  If you keep me around, I'll tell you words of wisdom you'll not soon hear from anyone else.  For instance, did you know that a fool and his money are soon parted?"	Treasure Map	I bought a treasure map from this treasure map salesman I met awhile ago and it says the dread pirate captain Silveka buried his treasure under a tree on one of the  islands east of Free Haven.	Bridge Deed	I just bought the deed to a bridge spanning the White Forest River.  It's a toll bridge!  Soon I'll be rich as my professional bridge managers make money from the tolls they charge and put it in my bank account!	Shooting Stars	"All of the really bad disasters started happening after the Night of the Shooting Stars two years ago.  Not much has gone right since then, except the Temple of Baa.  They really help people.  They also say that King Roland must have done something awful, 'cause the stars were avenging angels falling from Heaven to punish the wicked."
28	Chimney Sweep	Eric Von Stromgard	"Poor Eric's temper matches the weather in his kingdom.  Seeing a smile on his face is about as rare as seeing the sun in White Cap.  He's got the wrong way of looking at things, ol' Eric does."	Positive Thinking	"People often remark at how lucky I am.  It's not so much that I'm lucky, it's that I look on the bright side of everything.  You'd be amazed at how trivial some of your worst problems are if you look at them from the right angle."	King Roland	"Speaking of dooming yourself, poor Roland should never have bitten off as much as he did.  I'm sure he met his end courageously, but it was far too early in his life."	Temple in Free Haven	"It's a pity the Temple in Free Haven was destroyed in the fire.  That temple had the most magnificent altar.  The clerics there could raise people from the dead, even from just ashes!"	Loretta Fleise	"Loretta is my kind of person.  She makes her own luck, and it's almost always good.  She's got confidence, and that's something you can't just buy.  I'm sure that's the reason she's so successful: a confident, positive outlook."	Castle Ironfist 	I can never get work in Castle Ironfist.  I don't understand why.  It's almost as though they don't want people crawling around the castle.  Are they hiding something?	Luck	"Let me tell you a secret.  There is no such thing as luck.  You make your own luck based on your outlook.  If you expect the worst to happen, it probably will, and you'll have a horrible time.  If, however, you look on the bright side and expect the best, you'll usually find it."
29	Porter	Loretta Fleise	"Lady Fleise is the most difficult mistress to work for in all Enroth, you can be sure of that!  Penny pinching, heart of stone she has!  "	Kriegspire	"Every now and then there's someone who needs to go to a strange place, like Castle Kriegspire.  Like this one fellow the other day, he paid me well to help him and his servants carry stuff over the lip of Kriegspire Mountain and into its center.  His servants didn't look too healthy, either, but they never got tired.  Smelled bad, too."	Packing your Goods	"Don't be careless with the way you pack your goods in your backpack!  A little organization can save a lot of space, and let you carry more.  No one's going to do it for you, you know!"	Pack Rats	"The people who hire me often ask me to carry all kinds of junk I know they can do without.  Sorcerers have got to be the worst.  Pipes, tubes, glassware, junk– the works.  Just keep the best stuff with you and sell all that old junk!  But remember that selling to a general store will always get the worst prices."	Obelisks	"I'm sure you've seen the obelisks scattered around the Kingdom.  They say there's a riddle in them just waiting to be solved that shows where to find a great horde of buried treasure.  No one's ever done it, though.  At least, no one I've ever heard of."	Roads	"I travel with all kinds of people, carrying heavy loads from one place to the other.  I tell you though, unless you're powerful, your load will be lightened for you by all the bandits on the roads.  Stay off the roads between cities if you know what's good for you."	Snow	It's hard to travel through the snow.  Good thing you have people like me around!
30	Quarter Master	Food Supply	"Different terrains are easier to forage and hunt in.  You don't need to use quite as much food in grasslands, for example, as you do in the desert.  Keep this in mind when you choose a place to camp."	Wastelands	"Paradise Valley is no more.  All that's left from the Night of the Shooting Stars is a barren wasteland.  I've seen it, but I didn't have the courage to venture into it.  I'm not sure what sort of acts the people of Paradise Valley did to justify that sort of Heavenly retribution, but they must have been foul indeed."	Resting Safety	Some places it is simply too dangerous to rest.  Never assume you can rest in a difficult area.  Try and save enough strength to be able to retreat to a safer area.	Resting	Resting while poisoned or diseased is not advisable.  You stand a good chance of never waking from a rest while under these conditions.  You should get yourself healed of the poison or disease before resting.	Osric Temper	"Aye, I've worked in Osric's army before, tending camp and preparing food and cataloguing supplies.  He's a fair man, and an excellent leader.  He knows how to keep his troops motivated, let me tell you."	Inns	"Many inns are scattered across Enroth, and I believe there are even a few that eke out a meager existence in the western reaches.  These provide the easiest way to get food and the safest rest."	Benefit of Rest	"Resting allows you to approach the new day with vigor and zest.  Resting will heal your wounds and recharge your magic.  Nothing finishes a hard day like a good camp, good dinner, and a good fire."
31	Factor	Time	"Times are tough, and the banks have stopped giving interest payments on deposits recently.  Don't expect anything but security when you put your money in the bank– interest is a thing of the past!"	Accountancy	"Ah!  There's nothing like sitting next to the fire at home with a glass of wine, my dog at my feet, and a good balance sheet to work on.  That's the life!"	Shady Dealings	"You know, it really makes me uncomfortable to have to do business with or hear accounts from criminals.  I know they've stolen money, but what am I to do about that?  Jail is reserved for only the most violent or persistent of criminals.  Bring back Archibald and the good old fashioned execution, that's what I say!  King Roland's too soft, and so is his regent."	Pirates	"The 'Imperial Regnan Navy' has been on a taxation spree recently, and this has raised the cost of sea travel and transportation tremendously.  Many businessmen simply cannot afford to pay insurance on their goods any longer.  Somebody has to do something about the troublesome Regnans."	Death and Taxes	There are only three certainties in life:  The first is death.  The second is taxes.  And the third is the fact that you'll hear that joke sooner or later.	Resurrection Bills	Ever notice how the cost of Resurrection at a temple is exactly equal to all the gold you had with you when you died?	Fortune	Ever fantasize about discovering a huge horde of treasure?  I do.  They say there are three really big ones:  The first is the knowledge contained in the Royal Library.  The second is the treasure the obelisks lead to.  And the third is in Loretta Fleise's basement!
32	Banker	Loretta Fleise	Loretta's managed to make money by creating and exploiting her lead position in the shipping industry.  She's able to manipulate shipping prices all over the kingdom which brings in quite a bit of money.  I only wish I handled her accounts.	Gold	There's no two ways about it– you always need gold.  Everything has a price; hopefully you can pay it.	Expenses	"One of the best ways to make money is to curb your expenses.  Find the cheapest places to get supplies, healing, and training.  Don't hire people you don't need, don't pay for travel unless you need to, and don't buy items you don't intend to use.  Saving money is as important as making it."	Economy	"Due to the recent problems, people aren't spending as much money as they used to.  I'm afraid the economy is going to suffer quite a bit from this, and everyone will soon feel it."	Banks	"Banks are a safe place to store money.  Unless you personally own a secure, guarded vault, your best bet is to put your money in a bank.  You don't collect interest on your money, but because the banks don't lend out money, you don't have to worry about losing it."	Investing	"If you find a great piece of equipment for a low price, by all means buy it.  You'll be able to sell it later for a profit, and maybe even get some use out of it until then.  "	Western Areas	"I'm not sure the towns to the west even exist anymore.  Merchants don't travel to there, and no one has come back from those areas yet.  I believe civilization ends at Blackshire, and even the people there are strange at times."
33	Cook	Cost of Food	Better and fresher food that keeps longer is also more expensive.  People out west have figured out the trick of making food that keeps for a long time.	Evil Tidings	"Terrible things have been happening lately.  I heard about a village that was washed away in the recent heavy rains when their local creek overflowed its banks, and the news from Sweet Water is so bad there's been no news– people are saying the entire town was wiped out!"	Potions	"There's a way to make a powerful potion by mixing common herbs into water and the simple potions that process makes into more complex potions.  I know that if you mix an orange potion with a green potion you'll end up with a white potion of extreme protection.  There's a lot of other combinations you could try, but experimenting is dangerous!"	Evil Temples	"Wise men are saying they think the Temple of Baa is behind all the disasters that have been happening recently.  I think they're probably right.  The temple offers free healing, but you should think twice before using it– people are suspicious of the temple, and you'll get a bad reputation for having anything to do with them."	Herbs from Regna	"One of the few exports the Islands of Regna have going for them, besides piracy, is sugar, cocoa, and cinnamon.  If it weren't for those, I'd say we should ship the Temple of Baa over to Regna and let them sink all those islands!"	Fish	"I've cooked a lot of fish in my day, but never have I cooked one of the deadly eels that infest the waters north of Silver Cove.  I'd love a chance to do it, but not many people tangle with the eels and live.  But, oh, for a taste!  They say the eels are the best delicacy the world has to offer!"	Fruit Trees	"It may not seem like a big deal, but I like to supplement my cooking with fresh fruit.  You can find it most places just growing on trees, if you look.  Fruit trees have helped me out when I was hungry and had no money, and they could help you, too."
34	Chef	Alchemy	"Herbs can be used to create magical potions.  I don't know the procedure, but I know it's possible.  I wonder how those taste?"	Roland's Last Supper	I've heard the tales of the supper served to Roland's expedition the night before they left.  I wonder if any of them expected to return based on the accounts I've heard of that feast.  The luxury afforded to those men certainly sounded to me like some sort of last meal.	Favorite Dishes	"I love a well prepared steak, seasoned with a few herbs, and served with onions and mushrooms.  Add some steamed vegetables, maybe a potato, and some good ale… now that's a meal!"	Fountains	I've heard of fountains with magical waters that are supposed to exist in the lands.  I wish I could find one of these fountains; I'd love to prepare a meal with some magical water.	Food Prices	"Different inns charge different amounts for the food they sell, but don't be fooled.  The more expensive food will generally last longer than the cheaper stuff.  It's important to have food that will last when you plan to be out for long periods of time."	Food Supply	"Never run out of food!  You don't gain any benefit from rest when you have no food, and it's very easy to starve to death in the wilderness if you have no food."	Create Food Spell	"I believe there is a spell that will allow you to create food for yourself out of thin air, but I can't imagine food made from magic tasting very good."
35	Horseman	Price of riding	"Although it can be expensive, travel using the stables is faster than most any other way, excepting magic, and not many people can do that!  If you're broke, you'll have to hoof it yourself, but don't forget the food cost of travelling by foot!  "	Centaurs	"Our horses around here are thankfully very tame, but there are some centaurs– half man, half horse– roaming the countryside of Erathia.  The centaurs like to gather in tribes and make war on the humans and elves living near them."	Swamp Travel	"Now, not a lot of people like to go to the Mire of the Damned, and I'm one of them.  Horses don't belong there, either, and I don't think you'll soon find a stagecoach company willing to take you there.  My advice is to stay away from that place.  "	Resting	"You don't need to worry about this as much if you travel using the stagecoaches, but if you walk, be sure to rest on grass.  It's a lot more comfortable, and your travelling resources won't get used up as fast as if you try to sleep in the middle of the road."	Island travel	"I can't say I know much about travel over water, but from what I've heard, you can either take a ship to the islands, or Walk on Water to get there.  Ships all have complicated itineraries– be sure to ask the shipping company before you book passage when they do return voyages!"	Horseshoes	"Somewhere out there is a set of horseshoes that protect your horses' hooves perfectly, and never lets them get tired!  The places you could go if you had horses with those qualities!  Oh, well.  It's just a legend, most likely."	Sweet Water	"I don't suppose you've got any news of Sweet Water, do you?  No one I know has heard anything about the town for a year!  They're a long ways off from here…but a year?  Something must be wrong."
36	Bard	Songs	"I love to perform!  I love to travel!  There is no life like that of a bard.  The best gossip, the best food, and, most importantly, the best drink available… why would I ever want to be anything else?"	Free Haven	"The sewers under Free Haven house all sorts of interesting things.  I've heard stories of hideouts, temples, treasure, and well, sewage.  I don’t know which to believe, but it certainly seems like an interesting place."	Nicolai	"In my last visit to Castle Ironfist, Nicolai raved over how much he wanted to visit the circus.  I played a few songs from the circus for him, and he seemed to appreciate the gesture a great deal."	Temples of Baa	I don't understand why there aren't any major Temples of Baa in or around any of the major cities or castles.  For some reason they all seem to be built in more remote places.	Catherine	It's a shame that Catherine was pulled away to her father's funeral so soon after Roland's death.  That poor woman has suffered too many tragedies too soon.  It's even sadder that she's leaving Nicolai here while she's gone.  He's too young to have to deal with all of this on top of the crises affecting the kingdom.	Archibald Statue	"Soon after Archibald's defeat, I was able to peek into the Royal Library after one of my many performances at Castle Ironfist.  Inside, I saw a statue of Archibald in magnificent detail.  He must have had the statue made when he thought he was going to win his insurrection, and Roland's kept it as some sort of memento."	Council Members	"I wonder about the council sometimes.  The decisions they've made and some of the laws they've stalled on have really contributed to the chaos around here.  They've stalled any official investigation of Roland's death, and I don't understand why."
37	Enchanter	Music of the Spheres	"Though you can't hear it, the stars and the planets sing as they travel through the sky.  It is the Music of the Spheres– the grandest symphony in the universe!"	Retrograde	"Beware taking long trips for a few days– three planets are in retrograde, and one is actually on its third epicycle stage this month, all while Leo is ascending against Pisces' lateral movement.  Don't say I didn’t warn you!"	Prophecies	"It isn't wise to laugh off prophecies, even if, admittedly, most don't come true.  The most important one of our age is the one by Apius Silanus made on his deathbed 800 years ago when he said the dark brother would rise again in the shadow of the light brother's sunset.  That sounds an awful lot like our King Roland and his wicked brother Archibald, doesn't it?"	Dragon Towers	"Most people don't know about it, but the Dragon Towers posted near each of the towns are quite dangerous to students of air.  They're meant to shoot down flying monsters, but they'll also shoot at flying sorcerers.  They shot at me, once, and I'm lucky to be alive to tell this tale!"	Necromancers	"The Necromancer's Guild first appeared publicly during Archibald's brief reign 10 years ago.  They were around before that, but they kept themselves secret, knowing people wouldn't appreciate them.  When Roland became king, he outlawed the guild and ordered the leaders arrested.  None of them stayed around long enough for that, though, and now they're nowhere to be found."	Dawn and Dusk	"Every spell caster knows, or should know, that certain spells and magical effects occur around dawn and dusk.  For instance, no Divine Intervention is possible at any other time."	Meditation	"Practicing meditation may not seem like a big deal at first, but it can be a source of tremendous magical energy to the skilled.  Meditation masters can have many times the spell casting power as their less enlightened brethren."
38	Cartographer	Water walking Spells	"I've heard there are sorcerers for hire who can cast the Walk on Water spell if you can't do it yourself.  They charge a lot, though."	Travel Seasons	There are some places you can't get to during different parts of the year by boat.  You should plan your trips carefully to avoid inconvenience.	Loretta Fleise	"Lady Fleise is the Queen of the Merchants, and she has built a huge fortune by controlling shipping prices."	The Royal Yacht	"King Roland keeps his own personal royal yacht, the Queen Catherine, in a lake just west of Castle Ironfist.  She is a mighty ship, capable of going nearly anywhere quickly, but only the king or the regent can give permission for someone to use her."	Islands	"There are many islands that can only be reached with a combination of boat travel and the Walk on Water spell.  Many of them are inhabited by the most horrible of monsters, but often the finest treasures can be found on them."	Buried Treasure	"It is said that one of the islands east of Free Haven hides the buried treasure of Silveka the pirate.  Now, I know these stories are a dime dozen, but I swear this one is true!  If only the map could be found…"	Erathia	"Although no shipping companies are currently offering the service, Erathia, homeland of Queen Catherine Ironfist, can be reached in a voyage of three weeks or so, depending on the season.  Ain't never been there, but they tell me it's nice."
39	Wind Master	Flying	"Flying is certainly easier than walking.  Safer, for the most part, too.  The only problem is that the Fly spell continually drains your power, so you need to plan your flight trips carefully so the spell doesn't run out."	Mountains	"Magical flying is constrained to a certain altitude, so certain high mountains will block magical flight.  Given all the advantages of flight, that's really a very minor drawback."	Alamos	"Alamos is the home of many researching sorcerers and their magyar guards.  Rumor has it the sorcerers there study summoning spells, but no one is brave enough to go there and ask."	Terrax	"Terrax was Enroth's first arch mage, and a sorcerer of incredible power.  He developed the foundations for elemental magic, and made the first basic discoveries into light and dark magic.  His crystal is said to hold some of the highest magical secrets."	Dragons	"Dragons are not only adept combatants, they are wily spell casters.  Few people appreciate the dragons' grasp of magic, and many cocky warriors find themselves unprepared for the dragons' true power."	Dragon Towers	"The old Dragon Towers were built to protect the towns from flying creatures, but they'll shoot down anything within their range that's flying."	Feather Fall	"The next best thing to flying, if you fall off of a cliff or similar height; Feather Fall doesn't give you any control but it certainly keeps you alive.  "
40	Water Master	Water walking Spells	"Water walking– my specialty– permits you to walk across most bodies of water as though you were on dry land.  You have to be careful, though, or the spell will run out while you're still over the water.  "	Drowning	"The water in the lakes and seas around Enroth is very cold, and even the best swimmers can drown in it.  If you fall in the water, get out as fast as you can!  You can't survive long there, no matter how tough you think you are."	Ice Blast	"If you're ever facing a horde of small monsters, try using the Ice Blast spell on them.  It explodes into dozens of tiny shards of ice that bounce around and slice your enemies to ribbons.  Because it will bounce off the walls, it works even better indoors.  Make sure you cast it far away from yourself, or it will hit you, too."	Town Portal	"The Town Portal spell is the single best spell for travelling huge distances in Enroth.  Masters of water have firm control over where they go and when they can cast this spell.  It's expensive to learn, but well worth your while!"	Erathia	"Erathia is out of even Town Portal's long range.  That continent is a full six week's worth of sea travel away.  There are a lot of islands and sub-continents between here and there, all of them filled with petty kingdoms and tribes looking to rob travelers of their valuables, their freedom, or their lives."	Church of the Moon	"Though the Church of the Moon celebrated the darker side of human nature, it is not to say that good could not come of their evil, just as evil came of the Church of the Sun's good.  During their heyday, the Church managed to create artifacts of great power– the Doomsday Cloaks.  If you ever find one, don't throw it away!  They're all very powerful and valuable."	The Crossing	"The legend of the Crossing is more than a thousand years old, but that doesn't stop people from repeating it from time to time.  The legend says that we all, and that even includes the elves, the dwarfs, and the goblins, came from the same place on a great ship that carried us across the void between the stars."
41	Gate Master	Retreat	"I've had to rescue a number of doomed expeditions, and let me tell you the one thing I've learned.  If you go somewhere that you don't think you can handle, RETREAT.  No one will think less of you for it."	Town Portal	"An excellent spell, but unfortunately most towns are in the east, so you won't get very far exploring with this spell.  Of course, if you need to run back to town, this is the easiest way to go."	Maps	"If you're going to be teleporting around everywhere, it's important to keep good maps to avoid getting lost."	Guardian Angel	"If you can't learn to retreat, Guardian Angel at least provides a means of escape from certain death.  Anytime you explore a dangerous area, it's best to have this spell cast, just in case."	Devils	"I've seen a few devils in my travels, and they are fierce to behold.  I've had to rescue a few people from devil attacks, and I  was amazed at their coordination and prowess in combat.  They must have excellent training to be that proficient."	Lloyd's Beacon	"A great spell when running errands, Lloyd's Beacon allows you to set up beacons that you can teleport back to.  Though the beacons don't last forever, with proper planning they last long enough to get the job done."	Magic Portals	I've heard portals exist that allow transit between two fixed places in Enroth.  Knowledge of these would provide another excellent and fast way to move around the world.
42	Acolyte	Self Improvement	"The magics of mind, body, and spirit are the magics of the soul and the self.  To improve one's understanding of them is to improve one's standing with the gods.  "	Church of the Sun	"Although they were a heretical religion, their heart was in the right place.  The Church helped the poor, healed the sick, and comforted the distraught.  But they grew rich, powerful, and prideful, and pride indeed goeth before a fall.  When they attacked their rival, the Church of the Moon, they brought both their enemy and themselves down."	Light Magic	"Light magic is the strongest magic in the world that doesn't bite you for trying to use it.  Dark magic can work offensive miracles, but often as not there's a price to pay for using it.  Also, many of the most destructive dark magics hurt the caster at the same time it hurts the enemy."	False Prophets	"The Temple of Baa has been giving a bad name to all religion.  People are beginning to think they're behind these disasters, and I'm beginning to agree.  The gods must surely be angry with their disgusting heresies!"	Night of Shooting Stars	"I fear the Night of Shooting Stars was an omen of the worst kind.  It didn't take long for our good king to disappear after that night, and for the Temple of Baa to arrive, did it?  And all this talk about devils in the west…these are evil omens indeed!"	Healing Potions	"Making a healing potion is a simple matter, if you have ingredients.  All you need are widoweeps berries and a flask with water.  Just mix the berries with the water, and…Voila!  Instant healing potion!  If you don't have any water handy, you can just eat the berries directly, but the effect isn't as strong."	The Gods	"The gods oversee our lives and guide us constantly toward heaven and the light.  All you have to do is listen with your heart and do what it tells you to be admitted to heaven.  Have faith.  The gods will help you get there, if you'll listen to them."
43	Piper	Music	"Many people have contempt for the simple music of a travelling minstrel, but it is the work of a lifetime to get good at what I do."	Taverns	"It's hard to make a living these days playing music in the taverns.  I've been travelling between the towns for years, but people are really scared these days.  Everyone is afraid to spend money."	Rats and Children	Pipe music seems to have a strange effect on rats and children.  At least it does when I use my best pipe.  They follow you everywhere!  	Savage Beasts	Can't count on savage beasts to be soothed by music.  That whole story about controlling beasts with music is just a myth.  I have scars to prove it!	Medusas	"Once I was hired by a noble to entertain him and his wife on Star Lake, playing music while they picnicked in a boat. When we approached the south end of the island at the center of the lake, we saw the most hideous beast– a woman with snakes for hair– on the shore of the island.  She took one look at my noble benefactors and they turned to stone before my eyes.  It was all I could do to row away before I joined them."	Ruin of Sweet Water	"Sweet Water was an excellent venue for my music before the Night of Shooting Stars.  Now the road to that town is infested with devils, and they say the town is no more."	Fall of Roland	They say the king was last seen fleeing toward Castle Kriegspire with an army of devils following him.  He never returned.  I think we may have to face up to the possibility that our good king was killed by those monsters.
44	Explorer	Special Locations	"Many areas with magical powers are scattered around the world.  Most often, they are in out of the way locations.  It's to your best benefit to try and discover and use as many of these as you can."	Walk on Water	"Boats don't always travel on the schedules or to the destinations you want.  If you want personal control over your water travel, the water walk spell is the way to go."	Star Island	"I've never made it to Star Island, but I've seen the statues outside.  No one has ever come back from a trip to the island, and I suspect the statues are the transformed people that have made it to the island and discovered some terrible secret there."	Darkmoor	"Castle Darkmoor, in the deepest part of the Mire of the Damned, houses the most powerful undead anywhere in the world.  That's how the rumor goes, anyway.  I've never actually seen the place, much less been inside of it.  I've made it out of the mire alive, though.  Not many people can say that."	Flight Spells	"Flight spells provide a way to get past mountains and walls and other such obstacles.  There is a limit on how high you can fly with the Fly spell, though.  Some peaks rise too high to pass with magical flying."	Isle of the Hermit	"The Isle of the Hermit, named by Lord Terrance for its remoteness, is difficult to travel to because of the turbulent waters south of Enroth."	Travel Times	"Teleportation is the way to go to minimize travel times.  Of course, you can move around pretty quickly by boat or by horse if you have a skilled person leading the way."
45	Pirate	Regna	"People say bad things about my homeland of Regna all the time, but they don't know what they're talking about.  Never will you find a more fun loving, happy people than on Regna, nor a more fiercely independent people."	Cutlasses	"The cutlass is a better weapon than the broadsword for many reasons, but the best is the way it's swept backward to deceive your opponent about the length of your weapon's reach.  The smithies of Regna turn out the best cutlasses in the world, you can bet on that, matey!"	Tridents	"For sea battles, there's nothing like a trident for dealing with enemies.  The trident works underwater, or from the surface into the water.  Most weapons can't cut through the water well, but a trident stabs right through it."	Imperial Taxation	"I know it sounds bad, but the best job I ever had was Imperial Tax Collector for his Highness, Hareck IX.  We collected tax on a lot of ships, and good old Hareck always let us keep some of the booty– er, I mean proceeds.  <sighs> Yep.  Those were the days!"	Hareck IX	"Hareck IX has got to be the best leader in the world.  Not only is he the only Emperor in the world, he's the only leader I've ever heard of that does common work like the rest of his people.  Like when there's taxes to be collected on shipping, Hareck's right there with the rest of us.  Boarding, fighting, cursing, drinking, whatever.  Hareck's a real down to earth kind of Emperor."	Regnan smithies	"Lots of people would like to invade Regna and take her spices, her metal, and her treasures.  The only thing that's kept Regna free all these years is her attention to metal smithing science and her arms sales to all the countries of the world.  Everyone criticizes Regna for that, but everyone buys Regnan weapons.  Talkin' outta both sides of their mouth, that's what those hypocrites do!"	Arms Shipments	"I came to Enroth during the time Regnans were invited by King Archibald to bring over a load of weapons to help in his fight against Roland.  When Archibald lost the war, Roland seized all the arms ships and forbade travel to Regna.  I've been stuck here ever since."
46	Squire	Opponents	The best way to learn is to make sure to fight challenging opponents.  You don't grow by picking on things weaker than yourself.  The true path to glory leads through winning tougher and tougher battles.	Chadwick	"Chadwick, a veteran of the Succession Wars, lives in Free Haven.  He's the most decorated living cavalier in Enroth, and one of Osric's favorite knights."	Council's Cache	"Rumors abound that the council actually guards a cache of equipment from before the Silence.  I don't believe it, though.  Wouldn't the council have used this equipment against the devils, or even in the Succession War if it were true?"	Osric Temper	"The knight's Lord!  Osric's mastered everything there is in combat, from individual fighting to the logistics of siege warfare.  No one is a match for him in a battle!"	Repairing	"Every squire knows that a weapon is of no use broken.  Every warrior should know how to repair his own equipment, or be at the whim of the smiths' schedules.  Knowing how to repair your weapon is part of mastering your weapon."	Roland's Expedition	"I wish I could have been part of Roland's expedition!  There's true bravery– how glorious that troop must have looked, armor and weapons gleaming in the sun.  Better to die valiantly in the battlefield with your lord, then to expire in the night, cold and alone."	Shields	"The simplest piece of a knight's equipment, the shield provides excellent defense for low hindrance and weight.  No warrior should be without a good shield in a fight."
47	Psychic	Tarot Cards	There is a mystical deck of tarot cards some claim to have seen.  No person ever sees the deck twice.  To draw from the deck is to draw a new hand in the game of life.	Games of Chance	"Most games of chance are made to separate fools from their money.  Unless you're a psychic or phenomenally lucky, don't waste your hard earned gold on them."	Palm Reading	"Here, let me see your palm…<pointing at a line on your hand> Ah.  Well, just as I suspected.  You're going to die.  Soon, I'll warrant."	Doom!	"I can see the mark of doom about your face!  It is like a cloud that hangs just above your head, clouding your features and casting a shadow over your future.  Great and terrible adventures await you, my friend!"	Ghosts	"Of all the malicious mischief makers in the world, Necromancers are by far the worst.  Their 'science' is very new, and they know just enough to get themselves and the rest of the world in trouble."	Astrology	"Astrology is often sneered at, but I tell you it's very real and important.  The most significant astrological event recently was that shooting star that fell from the sky out of Sagittarius.  It portends upheaval, disaster, and opportunity for the entire world."	Witches	"The Witches' Assembly of 638 was the greatest gathering of sorcerers and alchemists ever.  Since then, the popularity of the magical arts has declined, and persecution of groups like ours…er, theirs– has grown quite a bit.  It really is quite awful."
48	Gypsy	The West	"Most of the dangerous areas left in the world are found to the west.  Paradise Valley and Dragonsand are the most notable, though the western parts of the Frozen Highlands and the Mire of the Damned are difficult as well.  As a general rule, the farther west, the more difficult."	Brigands	"With the death of Roland and rumors of a collapse of the Ironfist Rule, the roads are almost unsafe to travel anymore.  Brigands and bandits of all sorts now prey on anyone travelling too far from the protection of the castles."	Daggers	"A dagger or knife is the most useful weapon in the world.  You can use it for a variety of tasks, from cooking to carving to lock picking (in a pinch).  Plus, as you become more and more skilled, you can use one in either hand and even strike vital locations on enemies with precise attacks."	Baa Cloaks	"The priests of Baa are nice, even to gypsies.  You can tell a priest of Baa from the decorative cloaks they wear."	Resting	"Resting revives your body and mind.  Camping gives you a chance to relax, talk, celebrate– to just unwind a little and rest off some of the stress and worry of the remainder of the day.  "	Organized Crime	Merchants in the northeast aren't above hiring people to make sure that their competition isn't too competitive.  We try to avoid those areas and not get involved with any of the local petty struggles.	Merchants	"Merchants are businessmen first and foremost.  They will always try to buy low and sell high.  Don't be too upset with them; they need to make a living, too.  The way to get the best prices, both when buying and selling, is to try different markets."
49	Negotiator	Diplomacy	"I can't stress the importance of diplomacy enough.  A good diplomat can excuse any action, no matter how foul. "	Begging	"If you must resort to 'special' measures to get someone to talk to you, remember that begging is almost free of consequences.  Some types, however, just won't listen to a beggar, forcing you to try another tack.  Thieves and merchants never tolerate begging."	Karigor	"If ever there was a snake's nest of politics and religion, it was Karigor.  Karigor is a small island southeast of the 'bootleg' that New Sorpigal is situated on.  The twin rival Churches of the Sun and the Moon were founded there, and fought the longest war the world has ever seen until they managed to destroy one another about 200 years ago.  Their artifacts of power are scattered around the world."	Bribes	"If someone won't talk to you, and begging doesn’t seem to be working, try a good, hefty bribe.  Gold loosens a tongue faster than charity."	Fear and Love	"A wise negotiator once said, 'On whether 'tis better to be loved or to be feared, choose both.  But if a choice between the two must be made, choose fear.'– Words to live by, my friend.  Words to live by."	Listening	"Listen to the way a person greets you to get an idea how to deal with them, should they prove uncooperative.  You'll find that many people that share similar interests and professions will have the same attitude toward your choice of begging, bribing, or threatening them."	Threats	"If you've determined that begging and bribing are of no use, and you simply must speak with a person, then the thinly veiled threat must be issued.  But remember to use this option sparingly, since only the best diplomats can stop the damage you'll do to your reputation if threats become your habit."
50	Duper	Devils	"Devils!  Bah!  They're nothing more than illusions created by mages hiding vast treasure somewhere in Paradise Valley.  I know a few of those sorcerers personally, you see.  This ring I'm wearing was a gift from one of them."	Nicolai 	"Nicolai Ironfist is my twin brother.  I'll bet you didn't know that, did you?  We were separated a long time ago by our father, Roland.  They've used magic to keep Nicolai looking so young, but he's really my age."	Baa	"The Temple of Baa is full of insane cultists bent on world domination!  Their evil is everywhere, and they're out to get you and me!  Our only chance of escape is to kill their leader, Wilbur Humphrey, before he poisons the ear of the prince any longer!"	Pyramid	"Everyone wonders what secrets the ancient pyramid in Dragonsand holds.  Well, I know.  I went there under the protection of the King of the Dragons, and entered the pyramid.  It's the storehouse for all of the dragons' treasure!  It's packed to the brim with gold and artifacts.  Ahh, just the memory of the beauty brings a tear to my eye."	Organized Crime	"Up north, it's not uncommon for wealthy businessmen to preserve their position in the market by hiring thugs to trim their competition.  Trade wars can become quite literally wars.  It's best to not get involved in any merchant disputes."	Roland	"Don't tell anyone I told you this, but Roland isn't dead.  He simply needed a vacation from all of the pressures of being king, and he's hiding away on Abdul's Resort Isle under a false name."	Bridge	"Nicolai has commissioned a bridge to be built from New Sorpigal to Mist.  I'm working for him by offering affluent members of society a chance at charter membership of the Nicolai Ironfist Bridge Fellowship.  The basic membership gets your name on a flagstone of the bridge and costs 50,000 gold– a small price to pay for immortality.  Are you interested?"
51	Burglar	Stealing	"Some people are born to trade, or negotiate, or fight, or study.  I'm born to steal, and I'm pretty good at it.  Times are a lot harder now because of all the calamities; it's hard to find things worth stealing anymore– people are way too careful with what they have."	Sewers	Most people like to talk about the sewers of Free Haven as a home for all sorts of thieves.  I doubt it though.  I'd certainly live in a nice house with plenty of butlers and maids if I had my druthers.  Why would I choose to live in a sewer?	The Prince of Thieves	"A bandit that prowls up north, he is notorious for collecting 'protection' from merchants.  He has a good racket, but I'm not sure how long it'll last before someone does him in."	Banks	"Gah!  Nothing has ruined my livelihood more than the banks.  Because it's nearly impossible to break into them, everyone stores all of their valuables there.  I can't find anything decent to take anymore."	Thieves' Guilds	Some of the best perception and lock-picking teachers hang out in Thieves' Guilds.	Disarm Traps	"To keep people like me away from their things, people will often trap their chests. "	Fetzil 	"Fetzil, the Prince of Thieves lieutenant, is smart; he knows enough to hide out when things get hot.  He's not an easy person to catch."
52	Peasant	Labor	Thank God for Sundays!  If I had to work every day I think I would revolt against my noble oppressors and replace them with a capitalist-bourgeoisie run quasi-democratic society where I would still have to work long hours for little pay.	Temple of Baa	Have you heard of the Temple of Baa?  They're wonderful!  My family was hungry and they fed us when no one else would.  All we had to do was promise to come back!	Mandate of Heaven	"Don't tell anyone I said this, but people are saying the Ironfists have lost the Mandate of Heaven.  What else could cause all the storms and floods and disasters?  These are signs of heavenly wrath, mark my words!"	King Roland	"It's a shame about the king, what with his disappearance and all.  He must have done something to offend heaven to be so unlucky.  I guess he's getting what he deserves."	Nicolai Ironfist	"Even if King Roland did something bad to cause heaven to abandon him, I don't suppose that his son Nicolai deserves it.  After all, he's only ten years old.  Maybe heaven will smile upon him and give him heaven's mandate to rule wisely.  That would be nice."	Weather	"Weather sure has been strange lately.  Why, last June it snowed!  Snow in June, who'd ever have guessed?  It is an ill omen, snow in summertime."	Shooting Stars	"All of the really bad disasters started happening after the Night of the Shooting Stars two years ago.  Not much has gone right since then, except the Temple of Baa.  They really help people.  They also say that King Roland must have done something awful, 'cause the stars were avenging angels falling from Heaven to punish the wicked."
53	Serf	Governor	"I wonder what life was like before the Silence with a governor in charge of everything?  It couldn't have been very good, or there wouldn't have been a rebellion."	Nicolai 	"We need a real king, not a child.  How can Nicolai be a good ruler when he's still a child?"	Protection	"With all of the troubles that are going on, I'm certainly glad to be protected by my lord!  Other people might have to worry about their well-being, but all I have to focus on is the work that must be done."	Adventurer	"I wish I was a hero with a sword and shield, instead of a peasant with a plow."	Bandits	I can't leave the towns and castles without some bandit taking away what little money I actually manage to save.  Why can't the guards do something about all the brigands?	Temple of Baa	"Despite all of my problems, at least the Temple of Baa cares about me and helps me out.  Not like the government we have now."	Taxes	I hate taxes!  Why should we pay taxes anyway?  It's bad enough I have to spend my life working for other people; I need to pay them for the 'honor'?
54	Tailor	Hats	"There are three styles of hats popular these days, ranging from the cloth hat to the fancy, expensive sort made by the highest quality tailors.  Wizards like to enchant quality hats because they're lighter than helms and don't block your vision.  Also, a certain kind of conical hat seems easier to enchant than others."	Cloaks	"There's not much difference in cloak styles, except a general color or fabric choice.  There is one that stands out,  however, as quite unusual.  That's the Doomsday Cloak, fabricated 80 years ago by the Church of the Moon.  You can recognize it buy it's black interior lining and silver hem.  These cloaks are invariably highly enchanted."	Gauntlets	"Gauntlets are more an armorer's specialty than a tailor's, but I can tell you that the best stuff is available in the armorsmith shops of the far north.  The finest of these magical gauntlets are almost as easy to wear as a soft glove, yet protect every bit as well as the hardest plate gauntlets."	Belts	"Erik Applegate is the tailor most famous for working with alchemists to enchant belts.  Applegate has been working at this task for a few decades, now, and you can expect they've turned out some amazing stuff.  "	Indigo	"Indigo from Regna was cut off a decade ago when the king outlawed trade with that pirate kingdom.  I can understand why he did that, but I sure am tired of the indigo shortage.  I can't dye anything blue or purple!"	Boots	"Boots are the cobbler's domain, and I don't know much about them, but I will say that you shouldn't overlook their usefulness.  They can go a long way to adding to your overall personal protection in battle.  Everyone should wear boots."	Cotton	"Cotton is found in Karigor, the island home of the Church of the Sun and the Church of the Moon.  It doesn't grow well anywhere else, and it's difficult to pick and seed, but it makes for wonderful soft clothes, if you can afford it."
55	Laborer	Time of Wonders	Before the Silence was the Time of Wonders.  Magical creations handled all the hard labor– I wish I had one to do my chores.	Work	Someone has to do all the grunt labor around here.  Too bad that someone is me.	Ironfists	"As much as I hate being a lowly laborer, I'd much rather be me than any of the Ironfists.  Troubles seem to follow them like ants at a picnic.  I lead a simple but happy life… better that than to be a miserable noble."	Widoweeps Berries	I ate some poppysnaps once.  They made me so sick I missed a day's work.	Entertainment	What do you want from me?  I'm just a worker; I'm not here to amuse you.	Graves	I imagine much of my work in the near future will be digging the graves of the people killed by the devils.	Brigands	"If I could actually use a weapon, I'd probably be better off joining a bandit group.  I bet they lead an easy life."
56	Farmer	Majesty of Law	"All are equal before the majesty of the law:  Rich man as well as poor is prohibited from sleeping under bridges, stealing bread and begging for change.  –Voltaire"	Cold Weather	"All this cold weather's really got me worried.  It's really unusual, and I'm concerned for the health of my crop."	Armies	"There's been a lot of troop movement, these days.  All these soldiers keep walking over my fields!  Now you tell me– what do you think happens when an entire army walks over your crops?  Yes, that's right!  Financial ruin!"	The Blight	"I hear there's a terrible blight infecting crops and plants in the west.  If it spreads here, I'll be ruined!"	Rivers	"It sure has been raining a lot, lately.  It would be terrible if the clouds ran out of rain and the rivers ran dry because all the water had been used up during these storms.  If the rivers all ran dry, I'd be ruined!"	Produce Prices	"I can't even begin to tell you how awful produce prices have been in the market, recently.  I think someone's artificially fixing the prices low!  If this goes on much longer I'll be ruined!"	Farm Help	"Sure's been hard to get help recently.  What is a good farmer to do if he can't find strong workers during harvest times?  Go into bankruptcy and ruin, that's what!  Oh, woe is me!"
57	Cooper	Advice	It's easier to let a barrel roll down hill than to push it up.  Sometimes it's better to just go with the flow.	Heavenly Forge	"If I had a Heavenly Forge, I could make hundreds of barrels a day and not break a sweat.  I guess those forges were one good thing about the Time of Wonders."	Taverns	Fortunately there are a lot of taverns and inns around; they keep me busy making casks for them.  You can find an inn almost anywhere.	Wood	"With the destruction of Blackwoode and the stand-off in the Timber War, where am I going to get wood to keep making barrels?"	Barrels	"Chests and boxes aren't the only things that can hold treasure.  Barrels can also hold valuables, so don't forget to search them, too."	Liquids	Be careful drinking liquids left in barrels; you never know how long it's been sitting there.  You could get sick doing something like that.	Oracle	"I'd love to hear what the Oracle would say about the devils, the Temple of Baa, and Prince Nicolai.  Why won't the council consult the Oracle?"
58	Potter	Clay	Not all clay is created equal.  The best clay can be found in the bed of the rivers and streams flowing past Free Haven.	Hot Fires	"To make strong, excellent pottery, you really need a hot fire.  If it weren't so dangerous, I'd make a trip to Castle Kriegspire to try out the fires they're supposed to have under the castle.  "	Markets	"It's tough being a potter these days– there's no reason making it harder on yourself.  Always go to market knowing what prices should be, and make sure you come armed with your wits!  Someone without any merchant skill is likely to get bad bargains."	Fossils	"You can find the shells of all these little animals along the beach and in the rivers when you're looking for good clay.  They must be very old.  There's a lot of shellfish in the Free Haven Harbor.  Oysters, I think.  So many of them, they clutter up all my good clay!"	Paints	"Shipping has slowed from Erathia, which is where I get all the paints I need for my work.  That's the land the queen comes from.  I wonder if there's a problem over there?"	Spinning Patterns	"The wheel spins in the most fascinating ways.  Sometimes I think that if everyone would take a little time out and watch the wheel spin, they would calm down, and be less likely to fight with one another.  But no one will listen to me.  I'm just a lowly potter."	Change	Change is in the air and on the wind.  You can smell it and feel it.  Something big's going to happen soon.  I can always tell.
59	Weaver	Magic Clothes	Some articles of clothing have been enchanted.  It will benefit you to wear these types of magic clothes.	Weather	"When the storms hit in July, I was completely unprepared for the demand for winter clothes.  Now that I'm ready for the winter demand, it hasn't been all that cold.  I must have done something to anger the Heavens!"	Frozen Highlands	"If you're planning on staying up north for very long, make sure you pack warm clothes.  It never seems to stop snowing up there."	Clothes	"Fancy hats and pretty shirts are nice, but if you're going to be in combat you're better off with armor and a helmet."	Baa Cloaks	"I don't know who makes them, but every Baa priest has a cloak with the symbol of Baa on it.  I wish I had the job of making all those cloaks, I'd be rich!"	Dyes	"It's one thing to make the clothes, but the beauty usually comes from dying the clothes in interesting colors."	Darkmoor	Warm clothes won't help you resist the chill of Castle Darkmoor.  The undead there steal the warmth from your body with their touch.
60	Cobbler	Shoes	"Everyone should wear shoes, not just nobles and rich people!  What are you going to do if you hurt your feet?  How are you going to keep working?"	Magical Boots	There are a few different kinds of magical boots that alchemists have been making.  Most of the metallic ones have some sort of enchantment on them.	Dragonhide	"Dragonhide is the best material to use when making any shoe, belt, or boot.  It is supple, yet tough and resistant to the elements."	Hermes	Have you ever heard of the legendary pair of boots called Hermes?  It's said that the boots can boost their wearer's speed to godlike levels.  I'd love to see that someday!	Hobnail Boots	History is the sound of soft-soled slippers going down the stairs while hobnail boots climb up the stairs.	Will of the Gods	"The fact that our king is missing is awful, but it must be the will of the gods.  How could anything happen that isn't the will of the gods?"	The Blight	"The blight that's afflicting western crops and animals is slowly spreading east.  Cows are affected first, and this is causing a very serious leather shortage.  You can expect the price of boots and belts and other leather goods to be increasing!"
61	Ditch Digger	Intelligence	"If I was smart, do ya think I'd be digging ditches for a living?  Be serious, please."	High Council	Why isn't anyone doing anything about all the bad things happening?  Isn't that what the council is there for?	Pirate Treasure	"With all the practice I have digging, I should go to the islands in the bay and dig for pirate treasure."	Skills	"I'm not nearly as skilled as some of the people around here.  If I could cast spells, or heal, or fix things, more people would want to hire me.  Who needs ditches dug anymore?"	Promotion	"I sure wish I could learn to do something other than dig ditches, but I'm just not bright enough."	Osric Temper	Lord Temper won't even allow me to become a knight.  He said I wasn't smart enough to follow directions.	Labor	"This isn't the best job in the world, but at least the work is steady."
62	Miller	Grindstones	"Grindstones are so hard to make and find, it's a wonder anyone ever becomes a miller.  I hear that Karigor has a great rock quarry that turns things like millstones out by the hundreds.  "	Grain Prices	There must be something wrong with this year's grain crops.  I can't seem to find enough sellers of raw wheat and corn to make my business run properly.  I don't know how much longer this can go on before I'm broke.	Wind	"Well, with all this bad weather going on, at least the wind is good for me.  I have two windmills, and a little wind goes a long way to saving me a lot of money on labor costs!"	Water Mills	"While the storms have been a big help with the windmills, the water mills are suffering from all the cold weather.  Every time the streams freeze up, no work gets done at the water mills."	Flour	"Flour's been going bad early this year, even though it's properly stored in sealed containers.  I wonder what's going on?"	Mice	Mice and rats are a relentless plague upon mankind!  I hear that a keep near New Sorpigal has the biggest rats in the world living in it.  <shuddering>  May I never see such horrors as long as I live!	Taxes	"Taxes have been good under this King.  Archibald was terrible, much worse than his father.  I thought I would be ruined by Archibald's cruel taxes.  May he nor his like never hold the throne again!"
63	Carpenter	Timber Wars	Can you imagine the Elves starting a war over deforestation?  Where do you get wood if not from trees?  How am I supposed to make a living if I don't have lumber to shape and build with?	Enchanting	"The metal weapons aren't the only things to be enchanted.  Wooden weapons, like bows, sometimes have powerful spells placed in them as well."	Regna	"Perhaps I should move to Regna.  They have the largest navy in the world.  I could easily adapt to shipbuilding.  I mean, wood is wood, right?"	Heavenly Forges	The last Heavenly Forge stopped working about 130 years after the Silence.  No one has ever been able to repair the Forges.	Cabinets	Don't forget that you can store things in cabinets.  Chests aren't the only places to keep your treasure.	Blackwoode	"With all of Blackwoode now destroyed, wood is going to be very scarce in Enroth.  We might see another Timber War starting soon."	Secret Passages	"Let me tell you, some bookshelves or desks or other furniture can be crafted to conceal a secret passage.  You can walk through a room and never realize there were two or three other hidden exits."
64	Stonecutter	Church Design	"Churches and kings seem to spend a lot of time thinking about paving stones and whatnot.  If it weren't for them, I would hardly have any work at all."	Marble	"Marble is the finest building material money can buy.  Most of it comes from the hills near Blackshire...   which is too bad, since people are saying there's some sort of terrible curse on the people of that area. Not much work is getting done around there these days."	Gems	"Gems can be worth quite a bit of money, so don't get rid of them or sell them cheap!"	Jade	"They say that the streets of Kalimar, the capitol city of Karigor, are made of fine jade, and the buildings all use it too.  Sounds beautiful, doesn't it?"	Flagstones	"The roads of Enroth are made of flagstones from the hills near Kriegspire.  They were placed long ago by the people who first settled Enroth, and those first roads have never eroded or decayed in any way.  Very odd."	Ethric's Tomb	"The Tomb of Ethric the Mad is a wonder of fine stone cutting.  My grandfather helped build it.  He says there are some very cleverly concealed secret doors in the Tomb.  Why Ethric would care if a door was secret or not is beyond me, but hey– he was both rich and mad.  I guess he could do what he liked."	Statues at Star Lake	"If you ever take a trip near Star Lake, be sure to check out the beautiful statues on the island in the center of the lake.  They are so life-like they're breathtaking!"
65	Jester	Joke of the Day	"Why are there only twenty hours in a goblin day?

Ever see a goblin with twenty-four fingers and toes?"	Joke of the Day	"How can you recognize a goblin pirate?

He is the one with the patch over both eyes!"	Joke of the Day	"Why didn't the skeleton cross the road?

He didn't have the guts!"	Joke of the Day	Did you hear about the orc ventriloquist whose dummy quit to find a new partner?	Joke of the Day	"What do you call a jittery sorceress?

A twitch!"	Joke of the Day	"Why is it goblins have no luck raising chickens?

They plant the eggs too deep!"	Joke of the Day	"What is big and red and eats rocks?

A big red rock eater!"
66	Trapper	Game	"Used to be plenty of game out west.  Not so much, these days. Maybe it has something to do with the blight that's been killing the plants in Pleasant Valley."	Monsters	"Monsters been eating the good game animals, lately.  Lots more monsters than usual."	Tanning	Tanning is a disgusting job.  That's why I trap instead of tan.  	Traps	"There's lots of ways of laying a trap that's sure to go off when someone opens a box or steps on a certain spot on the ground.  You'd do well to have a little skill in disarming traps if you're going to go adventuring.  Could save your life one day, you know."	Dark Days	"Dark days are upon us, mark my words!  Never have I seen so many monsters and so little game."	Fur	"The one thing you can say's been good these days is the cold weather.  All the animals have really thick, valuable fur.  Only trouble is finding them.  Monsters been eating most of the good fur animals, I think."	Spooked Animals	"Come to think of it, the animals all started to go away when the stories of the devils in the West started cropping up.  Yep.  That's probably it.  Pesky critters!"
67	Beggar	Temple of Baa	"Most people have too many problems of their own to help out a poor beggar like me, but the priests of the Temple of Baa always seem to have time and money or food for me.  I'm very grateful to them for helping me."	Wealth	I can't believe how few people will actually part with a little money for a wretch like me.  Is everyone so selfish?	Succession War	"I hate to be begging like this, but the injuries I sustained in the Succession War prevent me from doing most labor. "	Donations	Have pity on a poor soul and spare a few coins!  The gods will favor you if you do.	Silver Cove	Nothing is worse than trying to beg near Silver Cove.  All the people there are so greedy!	Blackshire	"Just between you and me, I saw a werewolf when I was a werewolf in Blackshire!  I believe all the rumors about their curse."	Wretch	"I'm so pitiful, the bandits that prowl the roads even laugh at me!"
68	Rustler	Cow Shortage	The blight everyone's been talking about has been killing all the cows!  Now tell me.  How's a soul supposed to make a living rustling cattle when there's no cattle to rustle?	Fencing	"Don't tell no one, but I have a cleric friend who heals the brand marks right off the cattle we, ah, borrow from all the ranchers.  Works like a charm!"	Bloodsuckers	"Don't laugh, but I heard that giant flying bloodsuckers are responsible for killing the cows in the New Sorpigal area.  Gods preserve us!"	Cow Tipping	"Ever try sneaking up on a cow in the middle of the night?  They sleep standing up.  You can knock them over by just pushing hard.  Boy, that is one surprised cow when it wakes up!"	Underworld	"The Shadow Guild is the best place to find a buyer willing to take stolen cattle.  There's nothing they won't do!  They're great, AND they charge less than the regular Thieves' Guild.  You gotta try them out!"	Poaching	"When cattle rustling gets too hard, I usually spend my time hunting on some Lord's land.  Since most people are afraid to hunt there, those forests haven't been over-hunted.  Recently, though, the animals have been getting scarce.  Could have something to do with the western blight."	Notoriety	"If you think your reputation is getting too bad for people to tolerate you, you should check yourself into a temple and start donating, my friend.  The temple will spread word of your generosity far and wide, and people will think better of you for it."
69	Hunter	Extinction	"Mogreds are extinct in Enroth, and almost extinct in Karigor.  They were over-hunted because of how valuable their horns are for enchanting."	Blackwoode	"The destruction of Paradise Valley wiped out the grandest forest in Enroth, Blackwoode Forest.  A peaceful place, Blackwoode Forest was full of game.  I made a good living there among the trees.  Now I'm not sure where to hunt."	Shrines	Scattered about the lands are shrines.  I wonder what they're dedicated to and who worships at them?	Ivan Seling	"Who's Ivan Seling?  Only the greatest bow craftsman ever!  I wish I had a bow he made.  No one could be a better hunter than I!  Unfortunately, his bows have become very rare since the Timber Wars."	Bounty Hunter	"With the lack of animals and all the problems lately, I should probably just become a bounty hunter.  I could probably make a fortune tracking down all the lawbreakers."	Game	"In some places it is difficult to hunt for game.  You need to pack more food when you travel in swamps or deserts or snow, for example."	Bows	"If you're going to hunt anything, you'll need a bow.  I don't think you are fast enough to chase a deer down with your sword."
70	Scribe	Paper	"There's a paper shortage that's come up recently, and I can tell you, my clients do NOT like it.  It's amazing to hear some wealthy noble like Loretta Fleise complain about the cost of paper.  She probably has the largest pile of gold in the kingdom, perhaps even the world, and still she complains."	Pushy Nobles	"You can't even begin to understand how unpleasant working for the nobility is.  They may have money, but no other client is so pushy, demanding, or uncaring about the way they use your time."	Books	"I've scribed some spell books for a number of sorcerers, including Albert Newton.  He's my best customer, as a matter of fact.  He sells the most complex spells to the Guilds of Light and Dark based somewhere in the west, probably near Blackshire."	Scrolls	"Given the lousy selling price of spell scrolls, I would just hold on to them and use them in emergencies.  Often they are scribed at a very high skill level, so you may find their use worthwhile."	Dictation	"The most demanding master to have to work for is Osric Temper.  No one else shouts as much, or talks as quickly during a dictation.  I will say this though– of all the Lords, he is the only that seems to be on top of the devil situation we all know is so serious.  Unpleasant to work for to be sure, but he has the interests of the kingdom at heart."	Records	Wilbur Humphrey has hired me several times to take notes on disaster reports filtering in from around the kingdom.  I think there's been a sharp increase in calamities since the disappearance of the king.	Library at Karigor	"When I was much younger, I had a chance to see the ruined library of the Church of the Moon at Karigor.  It was made entirely of jade and marble, and once contained the wisdom of the ages within its hallowed halls. If ever you have a chance to visit, take it!"
71	Missionary	Church of the Sun	"Based on worshipping nature and the world around us, this church cared less about the people and more about its selfish goals.  "	Regna	The Island Empire of Regna hasn't converted to Baa yet.  I'm hoping to travel there to spread the word of Baa.	Church of the Moon	This Church focused on worshipping the heavens.  The conflict between the Churches of the Sun and Moon was pointless and wasteful.  We're all fortunate they're both gone.	Roland	Roland's death is proof that the Ironfist line has lost the Mandate of Heaven.  It's time Enroth had new rulers!	Baa	Have you spoken with Baa today?  Let me help you come to grips with your problems and show you a better way; it will only take a little of your time.	Nicolai	"The prince is far too young to manage a kingdom.  Wilbur Humphrey should be ruling the kingdom for himself, not in the name of a child."	Temple	The main Temple of Baa is just northwest of Blackshire.  Only members of Baa are allowed inside.
72	Clerk	Holidays	I could certainly use a holiday.  How many clerks do you know of that work every day of the year?	Tuesday	We get all of our important shipments in on Tuesdays.	Pushing Paper	"Better than digging ditches.  Besides, someone has to keep the machinery of state moving!"	Rubber Stamps	Rubber for my stamps comes from southern Erathia's more tropical climate.  There's a plant that grows there that saves clerks 'round the world a lot of repetitive writing!	Taxes	"A lot of people complain about taxes, but I just want to say I like them.  How could clerk's offices function without tax money?  How would people get permits and licenses without us?"	City Councils	"If you ever find yourself in need of work, just stop by the city council's office in one of the large towns.  There's usually a job that needs doing."	High Council	The High Council isn't just an ordinary city council– they are the body that represents the lords of the land.  They vote on important matters of state that need to be taken before the king.  They also control access to the Oracle.
73	Guard	Guards	"I know most people don't feel our job is important.  With the events recently, however, it's extremely important for us to keep order.  We will be as vigilant as ever!"	Arena	"Fortunately, most violent people take their aggressions out in the Arena, and not in the towns."	Sleeping	"Do I look bored to you?  I'm not, of course.  Acting like you're asleep is an old guard's trick. "	Roland	I wish I had the opportunity to go on Roland's expedition.  Better to take action and fight bravely against the enemy than to stand around and wait for trouble.	Dragon Towers	The towers outside the towns shoot at flying creatures that we'd normally have a difficult time handling.	Unrest	The rumors of the dynasty collapsing and all the disasters have brought out the worst in humanity.  I need to be even more vigilant than normal to keep the peace.	Patience	It is important for guards to be patient.  We can't go out and look for trouble; we need to wait for trouble to find us.
74	Follower of Baa	Worship of Baa	"Baa changed my life for the better!  Surrender your will to Baa, and you will forever be free of doubt and pain!"	Fellow Travelers	"Baa, friend…oh.  Uh, I thought you were a member of my temple.  Sorry, my mistake.  "	Free Healing	"If you're ever in need of healing and you don't have enough money to pay those sharks at the regular temples, why not visit a Temple of Baa?  They're healing people for free!"	Superior Temple	"Once you join the Temple of Baa, you'll be issued temple cloaks and be allowed to visit the Superior Temple of Baa located just east of Castle Kriegspire.  Everyone's going to join us sooner or later, so why wait?  The Superior Temple is quite a sight!"	Supreme Temple	"No one knows where the Supreme Temple of Baa is, but I've heard only full-fledged priests and high temple officials are allowed to visit."	Devils	"The devils people are talking about causing havoc in the west are just misunderstood.  Baa says that they are our friends.  You just have to be respectful and run from them if you see them coming.  They need a lot of personal space, and get angry if they don't get it.  But that's only because they are superior beings.  If we were superior, all this would be easier to understand."	Madness	I'm fine!  Why do you ask?
75	Noble	Sundays	I hate Sundays!  It is ever so hard to get good help to work on Sunday.  Like it's different than any other day!  Humph.	Upstart Religions	"There is nothing worse than new religions promising the world to the underprivileged.  They are upsetting the applecart and fomenting rebellion.  This Temple of Baa that everyone is talking about– now, they're no good.  I do wish the regent would mobilize against them."	Mandate Nonsense	"This Mandate of Heaven nonsense really has the potential to start up some serious trouble.  If someone doesn't figure out what is going on with these disasters soon, the kingdom is going to fall apart!"	The King	"The king's disappearance is a disaster.  I know that it is hard to feel sympathy for the nobility, but an orderly kingdom is in everyone's best interests.  Losing the king doesn't create order, and there is no one who could possibly replace him without so much bloodshed it would make the Succession Wars look like a schoolgirl slap fight!"	Queen Catherine	I do hope that the queen returns from her trip to her homeland soon.  Even if she is a foreign queen she will supply some semblance of order to our besieged kingdom.	Sabotage of Summer	I have heard rumors that the recent 'winter during summer' spectacles have been caused by mischievous sorcerers who have learned to meddle with the weather.  I think it's part of a plot to create mass hysteria and open rebellion against the King.	Meteors	"I'm wondering if something foul indeed fell from the sky that Night two years ago.  I am not, however, of the opinion that it was an avenging angel!  More like a devil, if you ask me!"
76	Gambler	Luck	I hope your luck is better than mine.  I've lost a lot of money on sure bets recently.  I think the bad luck of the Ironfists is rubbing off on me.	Oracle	"The High Council hasn't consulted the Oracle for years.  The last person to try was Archibald, and the Oracle didn't help him out at all."	Archibald	"You can tell that Archibald's an Ironfist– he has the trademark bad luck.  Not only did his bid for power fail, now he's a statue in the royal library.  At least he gets to spend the rest of his days in the castle."	Weather	I can't believe the strange weather we've been having lately.  I think I might just start betting on the weather.  I could probably make a killing!	Ironfist Dynasty	Most people don't have confidence in Nicolai.  I'll bet you 3 to 1 odds that he gets thrown out before his next birthday.  What'd ya say?	Chimney Sweeper	"Take it from me, if you want a lucky charm, hang around a chimney sweep.  Sure, their banter can be annoying, but they're the luckiest people I know."	Catherine	"The poor queen has lost both her father and her husband.  Hopefully, nothing will happen to Nicolai. "
77	Child	Circus	"I can't wait for the Circus of the Sun to get here.  I've been good all year, so hopefully my parents will take me to see it!"	School	"I hate school.  My father says I need to work hard so that I can get a good job, maybe even learn to study magic.  Who cares about that?  I just want to play!"	Nicolai	"I wish I was Nicolai!  He's still a kid, but I bet no one tells him what to do!  He can do whatever he wants because he's the king.  Not like me, everyone tells me what to do."	Devils	"My mother told me that if I do bad things, the devils will come and get me!"	Goblins	Do goblins have names?  Or families?  Why are they evil?	Boats	I'd love to sail the oceans on a big ship.  I could travel to all the islands and just be free of school and chores and my parents.  That would be wonderful!	Fighting	Why do grown-ups always have to fight?  Why can't people just get along?
