															
															
#	Fire Spells		Res	Short Name	A	X	M	Spell Description	Normal	Expert	Master				
1	1	Torch Light	none	Torch Light	1	1	1	Torch light increases the radius of light surrounding your party in the dark.  	Duration 1 hour per point of  skill	Brighter light	Brightest light				
2	2	Flame Arrow	Fire	Flame Arrow	2	1	0	"Creates and fires a single flaming arrow.  Unlike most spells, this spell is notoriously inaccurate and has the same chance of hitting as a regular arrow (using your Fire skill as a bonus to hit).  The arrow does 1-8 points of damage when it hits."	Casting cost 2 spell points	Casting cost 1spell point.  Quicker recovery rate	Casting cost 0 spell points.  Quickest recovery rate				
3	3	Protection from Fire	none	Prot Fire	3	3	3	Increases all your characters’ resistance to fire by an amount equal to your skill in Fire Magic and lasts one hour per point of skill in Fire Magic.	1 point resistance per point of skill	2 points resistance per point of skill	3 points resistance per point of skill				
4	4	Fire Bolt	Fire	Fire Bolt	4	4	4	"Launches a burst of fire at a single target.  Damage is 1-4 points of damage per point of skill in Fire Magic, but casting cost is low.  Firebolt is safe and effective—the “Old Reliable” of the Sorcerer’s arsenal."	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
5	5	Haste	none	Haste	5	5	5	Reduces the time it takes to recover from casting a spell or attacking with a weapon.  Characters will be weak for six hours after this spell wears off.	Duration 1 hour + 1 minute per skill point	Spell affects entire party	Duration 1 hour + 3 minutes per skill point				
6	6	Fireball	Fire	Fireball	8	8	8	"Another Sorcerer’s favorite, fireball targets a single monster, but explodes to hurt anyone else caught in the blast.  If your party is too close to the blast, they will be hurt as well.  Fireball does 1-6 points of damage per point of skill in Fire Magic."	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
7	7	Ring of Fire	Fire	Ring of Fire	10	10	10	"Generates a ring of fire around the party that damages all monsters it contacts.  Happily, Ring of Fire is safe and will not damage your own characters.  Ring of Fire does six points of damage plus one per point of skill in Fire Magic."	Small radius of effect around party	Larger radius	Quicker recovery rate				
8	8	Fire Blast	Fire	Fire Blast	15	15	15	"Launches streaks of fire in the direction the characters are facing.  The bolts only hit monsters that stand in their way, so a little aiming practice will help you get the most benefit from Fire Blast.  Fire Blast does 4 points of damage plus 1-3 per point of skill in Fire Magic."	Slow rate of recovery and 3 shots	Moderate rate of recovery and 5 shots	Quick rate of recovery and 7 shots				
9	9	Meteor Shower	Fire	Meteor Shwr	20	20	20	Summons flaming rocks from the sky in a large radius surrounding your chosen target.  Try not to be near the victim when you use this spell.  A single meteor does 8 points of damage plus 1 per point of skill in Fire Magic.  This spell only works outdoors.	Slow rate of recovery and 8 meteors	Moderate rate of recovery and 12 meteors	Quick rate of recovery and 16 meteors				
10	10	Inferno	Fire	Inferno	25	25	25	"Inferno burns all monsters in sight when cast, excluding your characters.  Good for cleaning out rooms full of weak or moderate strength monsters in one or two easy castings.  Each monster takes 12 points of damage plus 1 per point of skill in Fire Magic.  This spell only works indoors."	Slow rate of recovery	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
11	11	Incinerate	Fire	Incinerate	30	30	30	"Amongst the strongest direct damage spells available, Incinerate inflicts massive damage on a single target.  Only the strongest of monsters can expect to survive this spell.  Damage is 15 points plus 1-15 per point of skill in Fire Magic."	Slow rate of recovery	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
	Air Spells		Res					Spell Description							
12	1	Wizard Eye	none	Wizard Eye	1	1	1	Wizard Eye causes the automap located in the upper right corner of the main gaming screen to show the locations of monsters and other points of interest while outdoors.  The spell lasts 1 hour per point of skill in Air Magic.	Only shows terrain and monsters	Shows treasure	"Shows ""points of interest"""				
13	2	Static Charge	Elec	Static Chrg	2	1	0	"Targets a single monster with a jolt of static electricity.  It only does 2-6 points of damage, but it always hits.  "	Casting cost 2 spell points	Casting cost 1spell point.  Quicker recovery rate	Casting cost 0 spell points.  Quickest recovery rate				
14	3	Protection from Electricity	none	Prot Elec	3	3	3	Increases all your characters’ resistance to Electricity by an amount equal to your skill in Air Magic.	1 point resistance per point of skill	2 points resistance per point of skill	3 points resistance per point of skill				
15	4	Sparks	Elec	Sparks	4	4	4	"Sparks fires small balls of lightning into the world that bounce around until they hit something or dissipate.  It is hard to tell where they will go, so this spell is best used in a room crowded with small monsters.  Each spark does 2 points plus 1 per point of skill in Air Magic."	"Moderate recovery rate, 3 sparks"	"Faster recovery rate, 5 sparks"	"Fastest recovery rate, 7 sparks"				
16	5	Feather Fall	none	Feather Fall	5	5	5	Feather Fall prevents your characters from being hurt when falling more than ten feet by slowing the speed of the fall.  Feather Fall affects your entire party with one casting and has a duration based on your skill in Air Magic. 	Duration 5 minutes per point of skill	Duration 10 minutes per point of skill	Duration 1 hour per point of skill				
17	6	Shield	none	Shield	8	8	8	Halves damage from incoming ranged attacks (such as rocks and arrows) by slowing the missiles down just before they hit.	Duration 1 hour + 5 minutes per point of skill	Spell affects entire party	Duration 1 hour + 15 minutes per point of skill				
18	7	Lightning Bolt	Elec	Lightning	10	10	10	"Sorcerer’s Darling, Lightning Bolt discharges electricity from the caster’s hand to a single target.  It always hits and does 1-8 points of damage per point of skill in Air Magic."	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
19	8	Jump	none	Jump	15	15	15	"Jump launches your party up in the air, landing you 60 feet from where you started.  Your party takes no falling damage from the jump."	Slow recovery rate (faster for high skill ranking)	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
20	9	Implosion	Phys	Implosion	20	20	20	"Implosion is a nasty spell that affects a single target by destroying the air around it, causing a sudden inrush from the surrounding air, a thunderclap, and 10 points plus 1-10 points of damage per point of skill in Air Magic."	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
21	10	Fly	none	Fly	25	25	25	"Grants the power of flight to your characters!  This spell is very expensive and only works outdoors, but it is very useful.  Fly will drain one spell point every five minutes it is in use (I.E. when you aren't touching the ground)."	Duration 5 minutes per point of skill	Duration 10 minutes per point of skill	Duration 1 hour per point of skill				
22	11	Starburst	Elec	Starburst	30	30	30	"Calls stars from the heavens to smite and burn your enemies.  Expert and Master ranking in this spell both increase the number of stars called and speed recovery.  The damage for each star is 20 points plus 1 per point of skill in Air Magic, and Starburst only works outdoors.  Try not to get caught in the blast…"	Slow recovery rate and 8 stars	Faster recovery rate and 12 stars	Fastest recovery rate and 16 stars				
	Water Spells		Res					Spell Description							
23	1	Awaken	none	Awaken	1	1	1	"Automatically awakens all of your characters from a normal sleep and will awaken them from a magical sleep if they haven't had the sleep condition for too long.  The greater your skill in Water Magic, the longer the sleep condition could have been present before this spell becomes ineffective."	Works if asleep less than 3 minutes per point of skill	Works if asleep less than 1 hour per point of skill	Works if asleep less than 1 day per point of skill				
24	2	Cold Beam	Cold	Cold Beam	2	1	0	"Targets a single monster with a field of extreme cold for an instant.  It only does 2-6 points of damage, but it always hits.  The more skill you have in Water Magic, the faster you will recover from casting Cold Beam.  Masters of Water can cast this spell without cost."	Casting cost 2 spell points	Casting cost 1spell point.  Quicker recovery rate	Casting cost 0 spell points.  Quickest recovery rate				
25	3	Protection from Cold	none	Prot Cold	3	3	3	Increases all your characters’ resistance to Cold by an amount equal to your skill in Water Magic.  This spell lasts for one hour per point of skill in Water Magic.	1 point resistance per point of skill	2 points resistance per point of skill	3 points resistance per point of skill				
26	4	Poison Spray	Pois	Poison Spr	4	4	4	"Sprays poison at monsters directly in front of your characters.  Damage is low, but few monsters have resistance to poison, so it usually works.  Each shot does 2 points of damage plus 1-2 per point of skill in Water Magic."	Moderate recovery rate and 1 shot	Faster recovery rate and 3 shots	Fastest recovery rate and 5 shots				
27	5	Water Walk	none	Water Walk	5	5	5	"Only useful outdoors, Water Walk lets your characters walk along the surface of water without sinking.  This spell can be very useful, but constantly drains one spell point every 20 minutes while in contact with water."	Duration 5 minutes per point of skill	Duration 10 minutes per point of skill	Duration 1 hour per point of skill				
28	6	Ice Bolt	Cold	Ice Bolt	8	8	8	Fires a single bolt of ice at a single target.  It always hits and does 1-7 points of damage per point of skill in Water Magic.	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
29	7	Enchant Item	none	Enchant Item	10	10	10	"Gives a chance to imbue a normal item with magical powers.  The chance of success is 10% per point of skill in Water Magic.  Experts manage better enchantments, and only masters can enchant weapons."	Weak enchantments only	Stronger enchantments	Allows enchantment of weapons				
30	8	Acid Burst	Pois	Acid Burst	15	15	15	Acid burst squirts a jet of extremely caustic acid at a single victim.  It always hits and does 9 points of damage plus 1-9 per point of skill.  The big advantage of this spell is few monsters are resistant to acid.	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
31	9	Town Portal	none	Town Portal	20	20	20	Town Portal teleports the party to the central fountain of the last town visited.  Town Portal has a 10% chance per point of Water Magic skill of working when cast.  	Outdoors only	Indoors OK	Works anywhere and gives choice of destination				
32	10	Ice Blast	Cold	Ice Blast	25	25	25	"Fires a ball of ice in the direction the caster is facing.  The ball will shatter when it hits something, launching 7 shards of ice in all directions except the caster’s.  The shards will ricochet until they strike a creature or melt.  Each shard does 12 points of damage plus 1-2 per point of skill in Water Magic."	Slow rate of recovery	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
33	11	Lloyd's Beacon	none	Lloyd's	30	30	30	Lloyd’s Beacon lets you place a marker at a location you want to teleport back to in the future.  Just how far in the future depends on your skill and ranking in Water Magic.  Cast this spell whenever you wish to either place a marker or return to one.  	"1 Beacon, decays in 1 hour per point of skill"	"3 Beacons, decays in 1 day per point of skill"	"5 Beacons, decays in 1 week per point of skill"				
	Earth Spells		Res					Spell Description							
34	1	Stun	Magic	Stun	1	1	1	"Slaps a monster with magical force, forcing it to recover from the stun spell before it can do anything else.  Stun also knocks monsters back a little, giving you a chance to get away while the getting is good.  The greater your skill in Earth Magic, the greater the effect of the spell."	Normal effect	Stronger effect	Strongest effect				
35	2	Magic Arrow	Phys	Magic Arrow	2	1	0	"Creates and fires a single magical arrow.  Unlike most spells, this spell is inaccurate and has the same chance of hitting as a regular arrow (using your Earth Magic skill as a bonus to hit).  Also unlike most spells, Magic Arrow is free to cast when you become a Master of Earth.  The arrow does 3-8 points of damage."	Casting cost 2 spell points	Casting cost 1spell point.  Quicker recovery rate	Casting cost 0 spell points.  Quickest recovery rate				
36	3	Protection from Magic	none	Prot Magic	3	3	3	Increases all your characters’ resistance to magic by an amount equal to your skill in Earth Magic.	1 point resistance per point of skill	2 points resistance per point of skill	3 points resistance per point of skill				
37	4	Deadly Swarm	Phys	Swarm	4	4	4	"Summons a swarm of biting, stinging insects to bedevil a single target.  The swarm only does 5 points of damage plus 1-3 per point of skill in Earth Magic, but it never misses and the damage is physical, making resistance to this spell unlikely."	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
38	5	Stone Skin	none	Stone Skin	5	5	5	Increases the armor class of a character by 5 + 1 point per point of skill in Earth Magic.	Duration 1 hour + 5 minutes per point of skill	Spell affects entire party	Duration 1 hour + 15 minutes per point of skill				
39	6	Blades	Phys	Blades	8	8	8	"Fires a rotating, razor-thin metal blade at a single monster.  This spell can miss, and damage and chance to hit rely heavily on Earth Magic skill.  The blade does 1-5 points of damage per point of skill in Earth Magic."	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
40	7	Stone to Flesh	none	Stone - Flesh	10	10	10	"Removes the stoned condition from a character if you cast this spell in time.  The greater the skill and rank in Earth Magic the longer the condition could have been present before the “point of no return” is reached.  After that, the only way to remove the condition short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple."	Works if stoned less than 3 minutes per point of skill	Works if stoned less than 1 hour per point of skill	Works if stoned less than 1 day per point of skill				
41	8	Rock Blast	Phys	Rock Blast	15	15	15	"Releases a magical stone into the world that will explode when it comes into contact with a creature or enough time passes.  The rock will bounce and roll until it finds a resting spot, so be careful not to be caught in the blast.  The explosion causes 1-8 points of damage per point of skill in Earth Magic."	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
42	9	Turn to Stone	Magic	Turn - Stone	20	20	20	Temporarily turns a target to stone.  These stone statues are invulnerable to any sort of attack.	Duration 5 minutes per point of skill	Duration 10 minutes per point of skill	Duration 20 minutes per point of skill				
43	10	Death Blossom	Phys	Death Blsm	25	25	25	Fires a magical stone far into the air that creates a very large and powerful explosion when it lands.  The damage is 20 points plus 1 per point of skill in Earth Magic.  This spell can only be used outdoors.	Moderate rate of recovery	"Faster recovery, larger radius of effect"	"Fastest recovery, largest radius of effect"				
44	11	Mass Distortion	Magic	Mass Distort	30	30	30	"Increases the weight of a single target enormously for an instant, causing internal damage equal to 25% of the monster’s hit points plus another 2% per point of skill in Earth Magic.  The bigger they are, the harder they fall."	Slow rate of recovery	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
	Spirit Spells		Res					Spell Description							
45	1	Spirit Arrow	Magic	Spirit Arrow	1	1	0	"Fires an ectoplasmic bolt of negative spiritual energy at a single target.  Spirit arrow can miss, but a higher skill in Spirit Magic increases your chances of hitting.  The arrow causes 1-6 points of damage."	Moderate recovery	Faster recovery	Casting cost 0.				
46	2	Bless	none	Bless	2	2	2	Blessed characters have an increased chance to hit monsters in hand to hand combat and with missiles.  A character’s bonus to hit is increased by 5 + 1 per point of skill in Spirit Magic.	Duration 1 hour + 5 minutes per point of skill	Spell affects entire party	Duration 1 hour + 15 minutes per point of skill				
47	3	Healing Touch	none	Healing	3	3	3	Cheaply heals a single character of 3-7 hit points.  Skill increases the recovery rate of this spell.	Heals 3-7 points of damage	Heals 5-9 points of damage	Heals 7-11 points of damage				
48	4	Lucky Day	none	Lucky Day	4	4	4	Temporarily increases a single character’s Luck statistic by 10 points plus 2 per point of skill in Spirit Magic.	Increases luck by 10 points plus 2 per point of skill	Increases luck by 10 points plus 3 per point of skill	Spell affects entire party				
49	5	Remove Curse	none	Rmv. Curse	5	5	5	"Removes the cursed condition from a character if you cast this spell in time.  The greater the skill and rank in Spirit Magic the longer the condition could have been present before the “point of no return” is reached.  After that, the only way to remove the condition short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple."	Works if cursed less than 3 minutes per point of skill	Works if cursed less than 1 hour per point of skill	Works if cursed less than 1 day per point of skill				
50	6	Guardian Angel	none	Guard Angel	8	8	8	Sets up a compact with the Higher Powers to resurrect your characters  and return them to the last temple you visited upon their deaths.  The price for this service is half of the gold your characters have with them at the time of death.  Guardian Angel lasts for 1 hour per point of skill in Spirit Magic.	Characters are restored to life with 1 hit point each.	Characters are restored to life with half their hit points	Characters are restored to life with all their hit points				
51	7	Heroism	none	Heroism	10	10	10	Heroism increases the damage a character does on a successful attack by 5 + 1 point per point of skill in Spirit Magic.	Duration 1 hour + 5 minutes per point of skill	Spell affects entire party	Duration 1 hour + 15 minutes per point of skill				
52	8	Turn Undead	Magic	Turn Undead	15	15	15	Forces all visible undead monsters to flee until the duration of Turn Undead runs out.  This spell lasts for 3 minutes plus 3 minutes per point of skill in Spirit Magic.	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
53	9	Raise Dead	none	Raise Dead	20	20	20	"Raises a character from the dead if you cast this spell in time.  The greater the skill and rank in Spirit Magic the longer the character could have been dead before the “point of no return” is reached.  After that, the only way to raise the character short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple.  Casting this spell will leave your character in the weak condition."	Works if dead less than 3 minutes per point of skill	Works if dead less than 1 hour per point of skill	Works if dead less than 1 day per point of skill				
54	10	Shared Life	none	Shared Life	25	25	25	"Shared Life combines the life force of your characters and redistributes it amongst them as evenly as possible.  All current hit points are totaled and 1 extra point per point of skill in Spirit Magic is added to this total.  Then the points are distributed back to the characters, with no individual character being allowed to have more points than his maximum total hit points."	Adds 1 hit point per point of skill to the pool	Adds 2 hit points per point of skill to the pool	Adds 3 hit points per point of skill to the pool				
55	11	Resurrection	none	Resurrection	30	30	30	"Resurrects an eradicated (body destroyed) character if you cast this spell in time.  The greater the skill and rank in Spirit Magic the longer the condition could have been present before the “point of no return” is reached.  After that, the only way to resurrect the character is to visit a temple.  Casting this spell will leave your character in the weak condition."	Works if eradicated less than 3 minutes per point of skill	Works if eradicated less than 1 hour per point of skill	Works if eradicated less than 1 day per point of skill				
	Mind Spells		Res					Spell Description							
56	1	Meditation	none	Meditation	1	1	1	Temporarily increases a single character’s Intellect and Personality statistics by 10 points plus 2 per point of skill in Mind Magic.	Increases Intellect and Personality by 10 points plus 2 per point of skill	Increases Intellect and Personality by 10 points plus 3 per point of skill	Spell affects entire party				
57	2	Remove Fear	none	Remove Fear	2	2	2	"Removes the afraid condition from a character if you cast this spell in time.  The greater the skill and rank in Mind Magic the longer the condition could have been present before the “point of no return” is reached.  After that, the only way to remove the condition short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple."	Works if afraid less than 3 minutes per point of skill	Works if afraid less than 1 hour per point of skill	Works if afraid less than 1 day per point of skill				
58	3	Mind Blast	Magic	Mind Blast	3	3	3	Fires a bolt of mental force damaging to a single targets’ nervous system.  Mind Blast does 5 points of damage plus 1-2 per point of skill in Mind Magic.	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
59	4	Precision	none	Precision	4	4	4	Temporarily increases a single character’s Accuracy statistic by 10 points plus 2 per point of skill in Mind Magic.	Increases Accuracy by 10 points plus 2 per point of skill	Increases Accuracy by 10 points plus 3 per point of skill	Spell affects entire party				
60	5	Cure Paralysis	none	Cure Plyze	5	5	5	"Cures paralysis if you cast this spell in time.  The greater the skill and rank in Mind Magic the longer the character could have been paralyzed before the ""point of no return"" is reached.  After that, the only way to remove the condition short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple."	Works if paralyzed less than 3 minutes per point of skill	Works if paralyzed less than 1 hour per point of skill	Works if paralyzed less than 1 day per point of skill				
61	6	Charm	Magic	Charm	8	8	8	"Calms a single targeted creature and removes any hostile feelings it has towards your characters.  If this creature takes any damage, it will immediately become hostile again."	Duration 3 minutes per point of skill	Duration 6 minutes per point of skill	Duration 12 minutes per point of skill				
62	7	Mass Fear	Magic	Mass Fear	10	10	10	"All creatures in the caster’s sight fear the caster and flee.  If a creature takes damage while under the influence of this spell, the spell will be broken.  Mass Fear will not work on Undead creatures.  The duration of Mass Fear is 3 minutes per point of skill in Mind Magic."	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
63	8	Feeblemind	Magic	Feeblemind	15	15	15	Feeblemind removes the ability of a target to cast spells until this spell wears out.  The duration of this spell is 5 minutes per point of skill in Mind Magic	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
64	9	Cure Insanity	none	Cure Insane	20	20	20	"Cures insanity if you cast this spell in time.  The greater the skill and rank in Mind Magic the longer the character could have been insane before the “point of no return” is reached.  After that, the only way to remove the condition short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple."	Works if insane less than 3 minutes per point of skill	Works if insane less than 1 hour per point of skill	Works if insane less than 1 day per point of skill				
65	10	Psychic Shock	Magic	Psy - Shock	25	25	25	"Similar to Mind Blast, Psychic Shock targets a single creature with mind damaging magic, only to a much greater effect.  Psychic Shock does 12 points of damage plus 1-12 per point of skill in Mind Magic."	Slow rate of recovery	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
66	11	Telekinesis	none	Telekinesis	30	30	30	"Telekinesis lets you manipulate an object at a distance at a strength equal to your character’s skill in Mind Magic.  Switches can be thrown, objects picked up, and doors opened with this spell, all from a nice safe distance from those nasty traps."	Strength of effect is 1 point per point of skill	Strength of effect is 2 points per point of skill	Strength of effect is 3 points per point of skill				
	Body Spells		Res					Spell Description							
67	1	Cure Weakness	none	Cure Weak	1	1	1	"Cures the weak condition from a character if you cast this spell in time.  The greater the skill and rank in Body Magic the longer the character could have been weak before the “point of no return” is reached.  After that, the only way to cure the condition short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple."	Works if weak less than 3 minutes per point of skill	Works if weak less than 1 hour per point of skill	Works if weak less than 1 day per point of skill				
68	2	First Aid	none	First Aid	2	2	2	Cures 5 hit points on a single target when cast.  Recovery is reduced by an amount equal to the caster's skill in Body Magic.	Cures 5 hit points	Cures 7 hit points	Cures 10 hit points				
69	3	Protection from Poison	none	Prot Poison	3	3	3	Increases all your characters’ resistance to poison by an amount equal to your skill in Body Magic.	1 point resistance per point of skill	2 points resistance per point of skill	3 points resistance per point of skill				
70	4	Harm	Magic	Harm	4	4	4	Directly inflicts magical damage upon a single creature.  Harm does 8 points of damage plus 1-2 per point of skill in Body Magic.	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
71	5	Cure Wounds	none	Cure Wound	5	5	5	Cures hit points on a single target when cast.  The number cured is equal to five plus 2 per point of skill in Body Magic.	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
72	6	Cure Poison	none	Cure Poison	8	8	8	"Cures poison in a character if you cast this spell in time.  The greater the skill and rank in Body Magic the longer the character could have been poisoned before the “point of no return” is reached.  After that, the only way to remove the condition short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple."	Works if poisoned less than 3 minutes per point of skill	Works if poisoned less than 1 hour per point of skill	Works if poisoned less than 1 day per point of skill				
73	7	Speed	none	Speed	10	10	10	Temporarily increases a single character’s Speed statistic by 10 points plus 2 per point of skill in Body Magic.	Increases Speed by 10 points plus 2 per point of skill	Increases Speed by 10 points plus 3 per point of skill	Spell affects entire party				
74	8	Cure Disease	none	Cure Disease	15	15	15	"Cures disease in a character if you cast this spell in time.  The greater the skill and rank in Body Magic the longer the character could have been diseased before the “point of no return” is reached.  After that, the only way to remove the condition short of Divine Intervention is to visit a temple."	Works if diseased less than 3 minutes per point of skill	Works if diseased less than 1 hour per point of skill	Works if diseased less than 1 day per point of skill				
75	9	Power	none	Power	20	20	20	Temporarily increases a single character’s Might and Endurance statistics by 10 points plus 2 per point of skill in Body Magic.	Increases Might and Endurance by 10 points plus 2 per point of skill	Increases Might and Endurance by 10 points plus 3 per point of skill	Spell affects entire party				
76	10	Flying Fist	Magic	Flying Fist	25	25	25	Flying Fist throws a heavy magical force at a single opponent that does 30 points of damage plus 1-5 per point of skill in Body Magic.	Slow rate of recovery	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
77	11	Power Cure	none	Power Cure	30	30	30	Cures hit points of all characters in your party at once.  The number cured is equal to 10 plus 2 per point of skill in Body Magic.	Slow rate of recovery	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
	Light Spells		Res					Spell Description							
78	1	Create Food	none	Create Food	20	20	20	Creates food for all of your characters if you have less real food than would be created by this spell.	Creates 1 day + 1 day per 10 points skill	Creates 1 day + 2 days per 10 points skill	Creates 1 day + 3 days per 10 points skill				
79	2	Golden Touch	none	Gldn Touch	25	25	25	"Converts a single item you select in your inventory into gold equal to 40% of the item’s actual value.  There is a 10% chance per point of skill in Light Magic that this spell will succeed.  If the spell fails, the item is broken."	Converts item to 40% gold value	Converts item to 60% gold value	Converts item to 80% gold value				
80	3	Dispel Magic	none	Dispel Magic	30	30	30	"Removes all spells on all creatures in the caster’s sight, both helpful and harmful.  Recovery is reduced by an amount equal to skill in Light Magic  ."	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
81	4	Slow	Magic	Slow	35	35	35	"Halves the walking speed and doubles the recovery rate of a single monster.  Slow makes sure a monster will attack you half as often, and will have a harder time catching up to you if you choose to run.  The duration of this spell is 3 minutes per point of skill in Light Magic."	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
82	5	Destroy Undead	Magic	Dest Undead	40	40	40	"Calls upon the power of Heaven to undo the evil magic that extends the lives of the Undead, inflicting 16 points of damage plus 1-16 per point of skill in Light Magic upon a single, unlucky target.  This spell only works on the Undead."	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
83	6	Day of the Gods	none	Day -o- Gods	45	45	45	"Simultaneously casts Power, Meditation, Speed, Lucky Day, Precision, and GA on all your characters for one easy payment.   Day of the Gods is cast at your skill in Light Magic."	All spells cast at twice skill in Light Magic	All spells cast at three times skill	All spells cast at four times skill				
84	7	Prismatic Light	Magic	Pris Light	50	50	50	Inflicts 25 points of damage plus 1 per point of skill in Light Magic on all creatures in sight.  This spell can only be cast indoors.	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
85	8	Hour of Power	none	Hour Power	55	55	55	"Simultaneously casts Haste, Heroism, Shield, Stone Skin, and Bless on all your characters at your skill in Light Magic."	All spells cast at twice skill in Light Magic	All spells cast at three times skill	All spells cast at four times skill				
86	9	Paralyze	Magic	Paralyze	60	60	60	"Paralyze temporarily prevents a monster from moving or attacking for the (short) duration of this spell, which is 3 minutes per point of skill in Light Magic.  You are free to attack your helpless target 'til your heart's content--paralyzed monsters cannot retaliate."	Slow recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
87	10	Sun Ray	Fire	Sun Ray	65	65	65	"Sun Ray is the second most devastating spell in Enroth, concentrating the light of the sun on one unfortunate creature.  Since Sun Ray must focus the light of the sun, it can only work outdoors and during the day.  Sun Ray does 20 points of damage plus 1-20 per point of skill in Light Magic."	Very slow recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
88	11	Divine Intervention	none	Divine Inter	70	70	70	"Once per day during the rising or setting of the sun, you may call upon the heavens to heal your characters of all damage, restore your spell points, and remove all adverse conditions.  The gods exact a price, however, aging the caster 10 years for each Divine Intervention.  Recovery from this spell is shortend with skill in Light Magic."	Only works once per day	Only works twice per day	Only works three times per day				
	Dark Spells		Res					Spell Description							
89	1	Reanimate	none	Reanimate	20	20	20	"Reanimate allows you to raise a lifeless creature from the dead (sort of).  The spell does not make them grateful or peaceful in any way, but you can always kill them again, if you want."	Creature gets 10 hit points per skill point (up to creature's maximum)	Creature gets 20 hit points per skill point	Creature gets 30 hit points per skill point				
90	2	Toxic Cloud	Pois	Toxic Cloud	30	30	30	A poisonous cloud of noxious gases is formed in front of the caster and moves slowly away from your characters.  The cloud does 25 points of damage plus 1-10 per point of skill in Dark Magic and lasts until something runs into it.	Moderate recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
91	3	Mass Curse	Magic	Mass Curse	40	40	40	Inflicts the cursed condition on all monsters in the sight of the caster.	Duration 2 minutes per point of skill	Duration 3 minutes per point of skill	Duration 4 minutes per point of skill				
92	4	Shrapmetal	Phys	Shrapmetal	50	50	50	"Fires a blast of hot, jagged metal in front of the caster, striking any creature that gets in the way.  Each piece inflicts 6 points of damage plus 1-6 per point of skill in Dark Magic."	Moderate recovery rate and 3 fragments	Faster recovery rate and 5 fragments	Fastest recovery rate and 7 fragments				
93	5	Shrinking Ray	Magic	Shrink Ray	60	60	60	"Shrinks even the grandest of monsters to more manageable sizes. Duration of this spell is 5 minutes per point of skill in Dark Magic.  A shrunken monster deals one half, one third, or one quarter its normal damage while shrunk."	Reduces monster size to one half normal	Reduces monster size to one third normal	Reduces monster size to one fourth normal				
94	6	Day of Protection	none	Day of Prot	70	70	70	"Simultaneously casts Protection from Fire, Electricity, Cold, Poison, and Magic, plus Feather Fall and Wizard Eye on all your characters at your skill in Dark Magic."	All spells cast at twice skill in Dark Magic	All spells cast at three times skill	All spells cast at four times skill				
95	7	Finger of Death	Magic	Finger Death	80	80	80	"Attempts to immediately slay a single creature by stripping its soul from its body.  Finger of Death has a 3% chance per skill point in Dark Magic of working, with Experts and Masters getting 4 and 5% chances respectively."	3% chance of success per point of skill in Dark Magic	4% chance of success per point of skill in Dark Magic	5% chance of success per point of skill in Dark Magic				
96	8	Moon Ray	Magic	Moon Ray	90	90	90	"A powerful spell of Darkness, Moon Ray heals your characters and damages all monsters in sight.  It doesn’t do a lot of damage or cure conditions, but it is the only spell that harms all monsters in sight and works outside.  Moon Ray is restricted to working outdoors and at night.  All monsters take 1-4 points of damage per point of skill in Dark Magic, and all characters heal 1-4 points of damage per point of skill."	Slow recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
97	9	Dragon Breath	Pois	Drag Breath	100	100	100	"Dragon Breath empowers the caster to exhale a cloud of toxic vapors that target a single monster and damage all creatures nearby.  This spell is the most powerful damage spell in the lands, doing 1-25 points of damage per point of skill in Dark Magic."	Slow recovery rate	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
98	10	Armageddon	Magic	Armageddon	150	150	150	"This spell is the town killer.  It can only be cast once per day by Apprentices to Dark Magic,  and only outdoors at that.  Armageddon inflicts 50 points of damage plus 1 point of damage for every point of Dark skill your character has to every creature on the map, including all your characters.   "	Can only be cast once per day	Can only be cast twice per day	Can only be cast three times per day				
99	11	Dark Containment	Magic	Dark Contain	200	200	200	"This spell attempts to trap the force of darkness into its victims, hence the name Dark Containment.  The target of the spell will suffer from random effects- though certain creatures are immune to this spell."	Slow rate of recovery	Faster recovery rate	Fastest recovery rate				
															
															
															
															
															
															
