Skill	Description	Normal	Expert	Master	GrandMaster
Staff	A staff is a two-handed pole equally good on offense and defense.  Expert ranking in the staff will increase your armor class and master ranking will allow you to occasionally stun your opponents.	Skill added to Attack Bonus	Skill added to Armor Class	Chance to stun equal to skill	Staff usable with the Unarmed skill.
Sword	The sword skill covers most types of blades longer than a knife.  Expert swordsmen gain a quicker attack while master swordsmen may use any one-handed sword in their left hand and another weapon in their right.	Skill added to Attack Bonus	Skill reduces recovery time	Permits use of sword in left hand	Skill added to Armor Class
Dagger	"While daggers don’t do the kind of damage that a sword or an axe can deliver, they are very quick—sometimes letting you get two attacks for every one of your slower opponents'.  Expert dagger fighters can wield a dagger in their left hand while using another weapon in their right.  Master dagger fighters have a chance of doing a triple damage attack."	Skill added to Attack Bonus	Permits use of dagger in left hand	Chance to cause triple damage equal to skill	Skill added to Attack Damage
Axe	"While rather slow on the attack, axes do a lot of damage when they hit.  Expert axe fighters gain a little more speed on their attacks while master axe fighters can deliver extra damage."	Skill added to Attack Bonus	Skill reduces recovery time	Skill added to Attack Damage	Chance to halve the Armor Class of the target.
Spear	Spear covers all kinds of pole weapons with blades attached to the business end.  Spears are versatile and can be used one or two handed (they work better with two hands).	Skill added to Attack Bonus	Skill added to damage.	Ability to use a spear in one hand.	Skill added to Armor Class
Bow	"Bow skill covers both bow and crossbow usage.  Expert archers gain a speed increase with their weapon, while master archers can fire two arrows with every attack."	Skill added to Attack Bonus	Skill reduces recovery time	Bow fires two arrows on every attack	Skill added to damage.
Mace	Mace skill covers all kinds of blunt trauma weapons ranging from batons to flails.  Expert mace swingers do extra damage with their weapons while master ranking gives a chance to stun opponents.	Skill added to Attack Bonus	Skill added to Attack Damage	Chance to stun equal to skill	Chance to paralyze equal to skill.
Blaster	"A weapon from before the Silence, their making has long since been lost.  Expert and Master Blasters gain double and triple accuracy with these awesome weapons."	Skill added to Attack Bonus	Skill added to Attack Bonus (double effect)	Skill added to Attack Bonus (triple effect)	Skill added to Attack Bonus (quintuple effect)
Shield	Shield skill directly improves a character’s armor class while a shield is employed.  Expert and master ranking in the shield increase this defensive bonus.	Skill added to Armor Class	Recovery penalty eliminated	Skill added to Armor Class (double effect)	Protection as per Shield spell.
Leather	"Leather armor is the lightest armor a character can wear.  While leather provides less protection than chain or plate armor, it also slows your character down the least.  Leather armor skill increases the protection offered by leather armor.  As with all armors, Expert and master ranking both reduce the amount the armor slows you down."	Skill added to Armor Class	Recovery penalty eliminated	Skill added to Armor Class (double effect)	Skill added to Elemental (Fire/Earth/Air/Water) Resistances.
Chain	"Chain armor is the medium armor type.  It provides more protection than leather and less than plate, but it also slows your character down more than leather.  Chain armor skill increases the protection offered by chain armor.  As with all armors, Expert and master ranking both reduce the amount the armor slows you down."	Skill added to Armor Class	Recovery penalty halved	Recovery penalty eliminated	Receive 2/3 damage from physical attacks.
Plate	"Plate armor is the heaviest armor type.  It provides the most protection, but it slows your character down more than leather or chain.  Plate armor skill increases the protection offered by plate armor.  As with all armors, Expert and master ranking both reduce the amount the armor slows you down."	Skill added to Armor Class	Recovery penalty halved	Receive 1/2 damage from physical attacks.	Recovery penalty eliminated
Fire	Fire magic is a good source of offensive spells and includes spells having to do with speed.  Expert and master ranking permit access to greater versions of fire spells.	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell
Air	Air magic tends to be defensive and informational in nature and includes spells having to do with flight.  Expert and master ranking permit access to greater versions of air spells.	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell
Water	Water magic is equally defensive and offensive and concentrates on spells that move or change things.  Expert and master ranking permit access to greater versions of water spells.	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell
Earth	"Earth magic is defensive and includes spells that protect, bind, and strengthen.  Expert and master ranking permit access to greater versions of earth spells."	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell
Spirit	"Spirit magic concentrates on spells involving life and death.  Included are spells to raise the dead, spells that affect the Undead, and spells that influence aging.  Expert and master ranking permit access to greater versions of spirit spells."	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell
Mind	"Mind magic tends to be offensive and informational in nature.  Charm, fear, and telekinesis are all examples of mind magic.  Expert and master ranking permit access to greater versions of mind magic."	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell
Body	"Body magic is concerned with spells of healing and enhancement.  Spells to heal, wound, and cure disease and poison are all part of body magic.  Expert and master ranking permit access to greater versions of body magic."	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell
Light	"Light magic spells represent some of the strongest spells in Erathia.  Usable only by Clerics and Sorcerers, light magic cannot be chosen before creating your characters; rather, light magic must be learned and mastered during your travels."	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell
Dark	"Dark magic spells are the strongest spells in Erathia.  While casting spells of darkness can have spectacular results, dark spells sometimes come with unwanted side effects…  Dark magic cannot be chosen before creating your characters, and is restricted to Clerics and Sorcerers."	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell	Effects vary per spell
Identify Item	The identify skill will automatically identify an item if your character’s skill level is high enough when you right click on an item.  Certain items require your character to be an expert or master in this skill to properly identify them.	Ability to identify items	Double effect of skill	Triple effect of skill	100% success
Merchant	"Merchant skill helps adjust prices in your favor, whether you are buying or selling."	Skill adjusts shop prices in your favor	Double effect of skill	Triple effect of skill	Buy and sell items at cost.
Repair	Repair skill allows your characters to repair broken equipment.  Higher skill level allows you to repair better items and expert and master skill rankings allow you to repair complex items and artifacts.  The skill will work automatically when you right click on a broken item in your inventory.	Ability to repair items	Double effect of skill	Triple effect of skill	100% success
Bodybuilding	"Bodybuilding skill adds hit points directly to your character’s hit point totals.  Multiply the skill in bodybuilding by the character’s base class bonus (4 for knights, 1 for sorcerers, etc.) to get the total.  Expert ranking doubles this total and master triples it."	Skill adds to Hit Points	Double effect of skill	Triple effect of skill	Quintuple effect of skill
Meditation	"Meditation skill adds spell points directly to your character’s spell point totals.  Multiply the skill in meditation by the character’s base class bonus (4 for sorcerers, 0 for knights, etc.) to get the total.  Expert ranking doubles this total and master triples it."	Skill adds to Spell Points	Double effect of skill	Triple effect of skill	Quintuple effect of skill
Perception	Perception increases your chance of noticing a trap as it goes off and reducing or avoiding the damage it would cause  Perception also allows your character to notice treasures where others would not.  Higher perception skill allows you to escape stronger traps and notice harder to find treasures.	Skill increases chance to avoid traps and notice treasures	Double effect of skill	Triple effect of skill	100% success
Diplomacy	"Diplomacy helps to soften the impact of begging, bribing, or threatening someone to get them to cooperate with you.  The higher the skill, the less your reputation will suffer when you take any of those actions.  Expert and master ranking will double and triple the effects of diplomacy."	"Skill reduces reputation cost of begging, bribing, or threatening."	Double effect of skill	Triple effect of skill	Grandmaster text here
Thievery	Not Used	Normal Text goes here	Expert Text goes here	Master Text goes here	Grandmaster text here
Disarm Traps	Disarm traps skill is checked automatically when opening a trapped chest or other container.  A higher skill in disarm traps gives a better chance of disarming the trap.  Expert and Master rank doubles and triples the chance to successfully disarm the trap.	Skill increases chance to disarm traps on chests	Double effect of skill	Triple effect of skill	100% success
Dodging	Dodging skill can be used only when you are not wearing armor or using a shield.  Additional ranks of dodging will increase your armor class while not wearing armor.	Skill added to Armor Class	Skill added to Armor Class (double effect)	Skill added to Armor Class (triple effect)	Skill is usable while wearing leather armor
Unarmed	"Unarmed skill is your ability to use only your hands and feet in combat, no weapons.  This skill only works with your hands empty.  Additional ranks of unarmed skill will increase your chance to hit."	Skill added to Attack Bonus	Skill added to damage.	Skill added to Attack Bonus and damage (double effect)	Chance to evade an incoming attack equal to skill
Identify Monster	Identify Monster allows you to gain more information from creatures when you right click on them.  Initially you will learn their exact number of hit points if your skill is sufficient.  You can gain additional information at Expert and Master ranks.	Learn Hit Points and Armor Class of monster	Learn Attack type and damage of monster	Learn which spells the monster can cast.	Learn the monster's resistances
Armsmaster	"Armsmaster skill represents the warrior's tricks of the trade.  Initially, armsmaster reduces the recovery times of your melee weapons, and later on can give you a bonus to hit and even damage."	Skill reduces the recovery time of all melee weapons	Skill added to Attack Bonus of all melee weapons	Skill added to damage of all melee weapons	Double all the previous bonuses
Stealing	"Stealing allows you to take items that don't belong to you from shops, or to steal money or items from people.  Being caught, however, can lead to severe fines-- and outstanding debt is a punishable offense in castles."	Skill gives chance to steal	Double effect of skill	Triple effect of skill	Quintuple effect of skill
Alchemy	"Alchemy skill allows you to mix potions.  Without the alchemy skill, you barely have the knowledge to make a simple potion, though alchemy skill is added to the strength value of the base ingredient to determine the strength of a simple potion.  As you attain Expert, Master, and Grandmaster ranking in alchemy, you learn to mix more complicated potions."	Allows mixing of simple potions to make complex potions	Allows mixing of complex potions to make compound potions	Allows mixing of compound potions to make white potions	Allows mixing of white potions to make black potions
Learning	"Learning skill directly increases the experience your character receives.  Every point of skill is a percent of awarded experience that is given as a bonus (plus a starting bonus of 9%).  Five skill points would turn a 100 experience point award into a 114 experience point award.  Expert doubles and master triples this bonus, so 10 points of learning at master rank would give a 39% bonus to all experience point gain."	Skill increases amount of experience received	Double effect of skill	Triple effect of skill	Quintuple effect of skill
