Table (of Game struct)	Id	Field	New text
NPCText	2149		This will sound odd, but bear with me, heroes. The name’s Verdant, and I am a time traveler. Something rather dire has occurred and I need your help. Actually, the world needs your help. I am but a messenger… and the probable cause of all the trouble, but that’s really not what’s important here. 
What is important is that there is this clandestine scholar consortium. It has no name for it should not be spoken of, and hence has no need for one. We are a group of mages who researched the intricacies of time travel for the purpose of documenting the history of our world. Pure, untainted, unbiased. Something humans entangled in their affairs and fettered by political agendas are obviously incapable of doing. As the saying goes, ‘Winners write history’. And hence, we’ve mastered the art of time travel to witness the history and document it objectively, straighten out the mangled facts, uncover the truth buried beneath convenient lies.
It’s been working out great, our archives grow with each excursion, but this time, a little something went… a little wrong.
NPCText	2150		See, personally, I always found it disappointing how all the chronicles detail the lives of kings, queens, and other politicians. How they say, ‘and Queen Whatever knighted her heroes’. I don’t want to read about that, I want to read about the heroes. I want to know about mires they’ve trudged through, about the miles they’ve traversed, about the riches they hauled, and the little folk they’ve saved. 
So I’ve taken it upon myself to write a chronicle that has all of it and more. I’ve chosen three groups of heroes whose deeds saved countless lives, and I’ve attuned my magic to visit them all at the very beginnings of their journeys. I meant to get to know them, understand where they come from, see the world through their eyes, breathe in the scent of their sweat and blood. Yes, literally, don’t be squeamish, it won’t do you much good in your line of work...
NPCText	2151		...Anyway, something went wrong with the ritual, some malfunction or other and, uh, well. I seem to have erased a group of heroes from existence. Or, alternatively, I’ve booted them to another existence, century, or era. Fingers crossed for the booting. Then, well, I’ve tried to fix it and the same thing kind of sort of happened to the second hero group. Before you ask – yes, you’re the third. No, you’re not getting booted or existentially eradicated. *Verdant glances over to a book she’s holding* Probably. As long as the same can be said for all of your organs, we should be good.
NPCText	2152		What I need you to do is really rather simple in concept. Basically, I know you’re capable of saving the world, so I will need you to do it a few more times. Just three times total, don’t worry! With the other two groups of heroes currently or permanently indisposed, you’ve got to pick up the slack or things will get really messed up. I mean, really: the history will rewrite itself, and, given the scope of changes and the amount of lives affected, who knows. The history might just say ‘Enough is enough!’ and explode everything. A wild, yet educated, guess. So you see the problem.
Oh, you didn’t know you were heroes? Right, right, I tend to forget how stable-timed people operate and think. Of course. Well, yes, welcome to the hero-dom. You can try to escape your path, but in all honesty, it will be much easier to just get the world saving done.
Personally, I think I actually love this idea. It may sound cold, but I can’t help it, heroes are my weakness. And three time world-savers? I’m about to melt on the spot. Mrrrau! A silver lining, you may call it, yeah?
NPCText	2153		To travel through time and fall onto the paths that were meant to be traversed by the other heroes, you will need to use a Dimension Doors scattered across most magic-filled lands. Don’t worry, it’s mostly safe. 
There are one in Murmurwoods, Dragonsand and Evenmorn Island if I recall, maybe somewhere else too. Find one of these spots and if, how you call it? If you have mastered Town Portal spell, just use it. Share your surprise after. Also you could find Dimension Door scrolls amongst junk in some shops, it will work too.
You don’t need to hurry too much, it takes time a good while to restructure itself and acknowledge the changes in its fabric, but try to get it all done before you get old, aye?
NPCText	2154		This one's lovely if you like colors. I mean, fiery red, sky blue, earthly brown, sea emerald. Haha. Yeah, well, the elements are everywhere here, quite in your face. They... overflowed, you could say. It's kind of a crisis really. Either way, you would take the role of caravan guards, but worry not - caravan's done riding, no boring trips. You can rob what's left, sell it to the adorable lizards inhabiting the isle, and then get on with more interesting heroics. Please do. Mmmm... heroics. Yesss. Oh, and they even have unicorns there! Sadly, you may need to kill them. They're a little bit on the vicious side. Rrrawr.
NPCText	2155		Oh this one is special. You get to be LORDS. Hear me? LORDS. That sounds so distinguished, don't you want to be LORDS? Ha. But to get that swell title, you must first win a scavenger hunt on a little isle. It's no biggie, there's hardly any competition. I mean it - don't think to wait it out and let someone else win to be free from that little prison. It's not going to happen. Win it and then you're home - ruling a small patch of land sitting right between two warring kingdoms who each want a piece of said land. Well, the whole of it, really. Fun. But hey, you get to call yourself LORDS. Who cares about the rest?
NPCText	2156		This one's simple. You're a bunch of happy kids saved by a nice warlock fellow, spent your lives training, now all grown up and ready to roll. No need for a heavy roleplay, just don't be jerks. Go around, slap some goblins, squash a spider or two, poke a devil. Umm... I mean, an apprentice wizard, yes. No devils anywhere, forget the devils. I don't think I should be telling you things about your future. Well, their future. But also your future now. You know what I mean. From zero to hero, take your time, enjoy the views... once you find a vantage point free of death. Which is not going to be easy. This land is swarming with killey things. Seriously. I love it.
NPCText	2157		Good news: the whole hero-extinction mess wasn’t just my fault. Bad news: the whole hero-extinction mess wasn’t just my fault. In other news: there’s a Runaway Chaos that’s causing trouble and it must be caught and contained! More literally than one might like.
I won’t get into the technical details, because the more I’d say, the less you’d understand – it’s perfectly normal, not a slight against your wits in the slightest. But in the simplest terms, imagine there’s something we’ll call a Chaos Matter, it’s the force of Chaos in the universe. Entropy and all that. And from this matter, a bit… fell off, let’s say, and began causing unpredictable trouble. And though you may think – but that’s what chaos ought to be! Chaotic! Let me treat you with a slogan – In every Chaos there is Order, in every Order there is Chaos. 
The Runaway Chaos is the aforementioned bit. It attached to my spells and made them backfire horribly, as you well know. You have to go to the Controlled Breach, capture the Runaway Chaos, and return it to the uh… Uneasy Origin Matter. Yes, I made that name up, but no sane person can memorize the one we use to describe it in the consortium without hearing it a hundred times over.
NPCText	2158		The Controlled Breach is a place the consortium has created where it’s possible to see and interact with the Runaway Chaos, and through which the Uneasy Origin Matter can be reached. It’s an artificial realm-esque area where matters *Verdant snickers* can be safely handled without jeopardizing any real world places. 
Ruins of Escaton's Crystal should be enough magic-filled to allow our old friend - town portal spell - teleport you there.
Once there, all you need to do is find the Runaway Chaos and return it to the Uneasy Origin Matter. What can you expect on the way? Aye, this even I cannot tell you. Since it’s a result of a time anomaly, we have obviously never seen it before. 
What will happen to you after you go in and leave?
Well, um. Let’s not overthink things. I’m sure it’s going to be fun, though!
NPCText	2159		I have to figure out the exact cause of this whole timeline kerfuffle. There might be some more anomalies that I’ve missed. You’ve helped me a bunch already, but would you mind terribly if I called on you again at some point? I mean, you’re face-deep in this mess as it is and it’s not like you’re getting out of it anytime *Verdant snickers* soon. Might as well keep helping me, right?
NPCText	2160		Nifty gizmo, isn’t it? This gem will let us speak wherever and whenever. But, eh, as always there’s a but. The thing is quite unstable and will need to recharge after each contact we make. To put it simply, it absorbs energy from the air around it. You can either give it a few days or jump into the time-travel door for an instant recharge. Ever wondered why you come out of those with your hair standing straight in all directions? Now you know. Energy. Tons of it.

NPCText	2161		(Charged connector stone will heal you up once per day.)
NPCText	2162		I’m glad you asked, this whole conundrum is making it rather difficult for me to sleep. I could pretend it’s the worry over the poor goobers I’ve punted out of our realm, existence, time, or whatnot that’s keeping me awake, but I’ve always been a big fan of truth telling. Lies are so much hassle to keep track of, aren’t they?
Basically, I don’t much care about the scrubs I’ve sent away, but I do care an awful lot about the heroes snoozing within them. And I want those heroes back, and I want to put them in another time of trouble to witness their glory and maybe save a life or two while we’re at it. Hence I’ve been hard at work locating the two missing groups. But to make it happen in a reasonable amount of time, I will need your help.
NPCText	2163		You could ask, what value does time hold to a time traveler? And hasn’t the other heroes’ suffering has already begun – or, in fact, ended centuries ago, should they have found themselves in another period? And to that I’ll tell you: stop over thinking things. Trying to make sense of it all will just give you a headache. A rookie mistake of anyone dealing with paradox-prone situations.
Look at it this way – we’re living in dangerous times. As all times are, really, so it’s not like we can hide elsewhen. *Verdant shrugs.* And so it’s not out of the realm of possibility that a dragon will eat me tomorrow, or the day after, and cut my work time short. It would be deeply troubling and unfortunate given that I’m also involved in other matters of great importance, but the point is – it could happen. I don’t know what awaits me in this timeline, provided I stay here, since I’ve never been here and now before… I think. Oh gods, now I’m doing it. Stop it, woman! *Verdant slaps her left ear as if she wanted the paradox musings to fall out of the right one.*
Anyway, what I need you to do is help me build a Telelocator. Doing that will increase the chance of my finishing the task before I become a dragon snack.”
NPCText	2164		There’s two things to know here.
One: I cannot return the lost heroes to their own respective timelines as I’ve already attuned you to their paths. We’ll have to move them somewhen else or the universe could get really huffy and we would really not want that. If we plop them in some random, nicely troubled time and place they will start their own new paths, and all will be good.

Two: to commence said plopping, we must first locate the poor goobers. That can be accomplished by building a device we call the Telelocator. That’s where you come in.
First things first, we need a Rod. Not just any rod, but a special rod of an infused metal. There’s a clan of Duergars dwelling near Alvar who dabble with this kind of ore. I’m sure they’ll have a rod somewhere around their complex, what half-competent blacksmith wouldn’t have one? I’d suggest to simply purchase it, but I’ve heard them Duergars are rather grumpy. And by grumpy I mean they would rather lodge an axe in your head than barter.

NPCText	2165		How’s the Rod expedition going? No, I cannot use a wooden stick instead, stop asking or I’ll get one and use it for another purpose next time you do. Ass-whooping in the purpose, in case there was any doubt.
NPCText	2166		Brilliant. This is a wonderful rod. Have you run your hand over it? Try it! Bzzt. Bzzt! Fun, isn’t it? Next we’ll need a Guiding Gem.
NPCText	2167		Acquire an Infused Metal Rod for Verdant to serve as a base of the Telelocator. She said Duergars of Alvar may own a few.
NPCText	2168		There is no such thing as a Guiding Gem, obviously, we have to make one. I will need a large round crystal for this. LARGE. ROUND. And I mean, *SERIOUSLY ROUND*. None of that shady vendor garbage. If the stream gets skewed due to an uneven orb shape I might get a nosebleed of the century when I use the Telelocator. I’ve already sprayed the halls for the century two centuries back, and also for the one six from now, and I’m definitely not into repeating that experience.
So yes, round please. I’ve asked around and been told that the dwarves of the Stone City might have something like that stashed away. They sure love their crystals and when it comes to classy stone cutting they have no equals.
Is it possible you will have to steal it? Please, we are living in a world of wonders. Dragons, Unicorns, talking trees, might and magic. Of course it’s possible, what sort of a dumb question is that?
NPCText	2169		The dwarves are generally a very friendly folk. If they get mad at you, just bolt and give them a moment to cool off while firmly out of their sight. Or learn to be sneaky and don’t get caught in the first place. I’d advise the latter, but I won’t be surprised if you just go and slaughter everyone instead. You wouldn’t believe the things some world-saving heroes liked to do. *Verdant rolls her eyes, but a corner of her lips twitches in a way that makes you wonder if she doesn’t appreciate an occasional anti-hero spicing up her chronicles.*
NPCText	2170		Great, this is beautiful. So smooth… I could just sit and pet it for hours. Which I might well do until you return with the Wisp Wrappings, as there’s little progress to be made meanwhile.
NPCText	2171		Acquire a Large Seriously Round Crystal for Verdant’s Telelocator. One could possibly be found in the Stone City located in Barrow Downs.
NPCText	2172		Good, good, we almost have our thing pieced together. To attach the gem to the rod I need one more thing – Wisp Wrappings. It’s basically bandages, but infused with a strong spiritual essence. That can only happen if they touched the “flesh” of an undead and have spent some time being filled with a strong spiritual presence.
I know just the place to look for such a thing. Near the Castle Ironfist you will find a place that used to belong to a wizard named Corlagon. That hole is just swarming with all sorts of undead. If a piece of cloth ever fell off one of them, it will be perfect. Those ghosts there seem to be very… bed-sheety. So I wouldn’t be at all surprised if the entire area was littered with bits that tore off them while they flew around the corridors.
What? You don’t know what bed sheets are? You poor things! Grab yourself a ghost carcass in the Estate then and line your bed with it next time. You’ll thank me!
NPCText	2173		Don’t tell me not one of those ghosts has ever ran into a sharp nail sticking out of the wall or another?
NPCText	2174		Lovely, that’s exactly what I needed. Mmm… and it smells delicious too. If you can look past the odor of death and rotting meat. Here try it, look for that subtle note in the background. Oh, come on! Why does no one ever want to share the simple pleasures with me? *Verdant pouts* Fine, business then. We need to enchant the rod and the gem now.
NPCText	2175		Acquire Wisp Wrappings for Verdant’s Telelocator. She suggested searching for some in the Corlagon’s Estate near Castle Ironfist.
NPCText	2176		Infusing the Guiding Gem might turn out to be an affair more expensive than dangerous. I’d love to reimburse you but, alas, I don’t have any currency valid in this here time period. In the place I’ve last visited with an intention to buy things they stopped trading in gold. *Verdant shows you a bunch of useless paper scraps* You could get a horse for this. Fun, no?
What I need right now are gems – a great variety of gems. Bring me one of %s. I need to powder them and experiment to find the right dust combination that will properly attune the Guiding Gem to the realms.
NPCText	2177		Acquire %s for Verdant’s Telelocator. They can be found all over the world and bought from various merchants.
NPCText	2178		I really hope you like collecting things. Do not tell me otherwise, let me stay blissfully happy for you!
NPCText	2179		Well, this is %s, I still need %s.
NPCText	2180		Oh, aren’t these just gorgeous? It’s almost a shame to turn them to dust… I wonder if there could be another way---OKAY, FINE I’LL DO IT! No need for these death stares, what are you, gorgons? *Verdant mumbles something under her breath.*
NPCText	2181		The rod can be enchanted with just a little bit of leg work. You will need to drop by the four Elemental Planes, but before you panic – don’t. What I need can be found near the very entrance of each of them.
All you need to do is go inside, boink the frame with a sword or whatever you have at hand, and pick up what falls off. These metal structures are surprisingly soft, it’s the rampaging elemental middle that’s holding it all together and actually shaping the thing. Who’d have guessed, huh? You may even just find some chippings lying around to save you the hassle. Seriously, an angry cat could probably bite one off.
Either way, bring me four of the chippings and I’ll melt them into the rod to give it the much needed power.
NPCText	2182		Acquire Fire Portal Chipping, Water Portal Chipping, Earth Portal Chipping, and Air Portal Chipping for Verdant’s Telelocator. They can be found inside the Elemental Planes near the entrance portal.
NPCText	2183		You can try to bite the frames if you want, too. If a cat can do it so can you. But remember – it must be the frame inside the realm. The outer ones are actually quite tough and would definitely chip your teeth instead. Don’t ask me why that’s so, I didn’t make them.
NPCText	2184		You've acquired %s Chipping!
NPCText	2185		Okay, give me these and let’s see how that works out.
NPCText	2186		Wonderful, gorgeous, beautiful. Now that we have this puppy in one piece and magical enough, on top of being attuned to the realms, we need to do one more thing before I activate it. Well, one-ish. We need to attune it to the heroic spirits, traits found in heroes, kindred souls of valiance, call it however you want. Long story short, I need you to hold it and let it become drunk with your awesomeness. The problematic part may be, you need to actually be awesome for the device to want to drink from you.
Luckily, it doesn’t need to feed on just one person. No, it won’t literally suck the thing out of you! Seriously? I’m being metaphorical. Why would I want to break you… *Verdant sighs and shakes her head.* Telelocator needs to feel Might, Endurance, Accuracy, Intellect, Personality, and Luck. If you feel strong at one of them, come forth, take it, and close your eyes. Tell it, in your mind, about your valor. If it deems you worthy and absorbs your essence – NOT by taking it away, I SWEAR – the Guiding Gem will glow.
NPCText	2187		 [insufficient] Harder! Try to squeeze it maybe?
NPCText	2188		*The Telelocator brightens up. Verdant whispers something under her breath with her eyes following every twitch of your muscles.*
NPCText	2189		 [insufficient] Maybe if you first do a few rounds up and down the stairs?
NPCText	2190		*The Telelocator brightens up.* I wish I could ‘attune’ myself to you too. I’m out of breath after a ten seconds run. Heck, I’m out of breath just talking about it. *Verdant pants.*
NPCText	2191		 [insufficient] Try squinting. More. More! Close your eyes! Aim with your mind alone! Eh. Still nothing.
NPCText	2192		*The Telelocator brightens up.* Can you hunt me a deer for dinner? I’ve been eating local shrooms for too many days already. Bleh.
NPCText	2193		 [insufficient] Did it ask you a riddle or something? If so, do tell, I’m curious if I’d get it right.
NPCText	2194		*The Telelocator brightens up.* Sweet. You know, we should meet for a round of Ugili Duli once. It’s a fascinating game, but nobody around seems to even get the rules. Much less pose a challenge!
NPCText	2195		 [insufficient] Don’t worry, I personally think you’re very, very charming and… personable. Mrrr…
NPCText	2196		*The Telelocator brightens up.* Then the gizmo and I are in agreement.
NPCText	2197		 [insufficient] How often do you step in poop? I find that’s a good measure of how badly the world hates you. Once you get to less than twice a day give it another go.
NPCText	2198		*The Telelocator brightens up.* It’s our lucky day! The fortune smiles on us today! Hm. I had more cliches ready for this one, but they fled my mind. I guess you really *are* lucky.
NPCText	2199		Pass the test Might (70) to attune the Telelocator.
Pass the test Endurance (70) to attune the Telelocator.
Pass the test Accuracy (70) to attune the Telelocator.
Pass the test Intellect (70) to attune the Telelocator.
Pass the test Personality (70) to attune the Telelocator.
Pass the test Luck (70) to attune the Telelocator
NPCText	2200		We’re almost there. I can nearly hear the desperate cries for help from our punted friends! Provided they still actually exist somewhere and haven’t been straight out erased from everywhere… let’s stick to nearly hearing their cries, aye?
Now this may be a toughie. To activate the Telelocator I will need a lot of power. Not a fancy power core kind of power, but still. Ten Philosopher Stones is what we’re looking for here. Once you bring them to me, we can finally use the thing! I’m getting excited.
NPCText	2201		May I suggest an alchemy lab heist? Desperate times desperate measures and all that.
NPCText	2202		Well, %s more stones left.
NPCText	2203		Brilliant. No more talk. Let’s go.
NPCText	2204		Acquire 10 Philosopher Stones to activate the Telelocator.
NPCText	2205		*Verdant performs quite a lengthy ritual to activate the Telelocator, and just when you begin to worry that it may not work after all this work, the device beams up and the sorceress opens her eyes wide. She’s looking straight at you, but her gaze is absent, as she’s not seeing you, but things from realms, or times, far away or long time away from here and now. Then, she speaks, strangely mechanically.”
Targets found. Realms: Attuned. Time: Attuned.
World: Ashan. Year: 1923
Targets’ Status: Incapacitated and confused. Targets’ predicted remaining lifespan: Eleven thousand and sixty six days.
Realms: Detached. Time: Detached.
*Verdant opens her eyes with a gasp.*
Aw, crap.
NPCText	2206		Yes, we can do it. I don’t know how much you’ve heard, but I know exactly how to bring the lost heroes back into our world and place them in a more fair predicament. I will need some gruesome stuff for that. It’s all about sacrifice and suffering now, you know. Also, do make haste as always, but don’t worry about time too much. Telelocator has detached both timelines so as long as I’m alive and the universe doesn’t backflip, the heroes can be saved.
I will need you to bring me 5 Will’o’Wisp Hearts, 5 Wolf Eyes, 3 Phoenix Feathers, a vial of Troll Blood, a vial of Gog Blood, 2 Dragon’s Eyes, and a Focal Ring.
Then I will… Let’s not think or talk about it right now. Go, let’s save those Goobers so they can become the heroes we all know they can be!
NPCText	2207		That’s not enough murder. Get on it, aye? Trust me, I’m getting the short end of the stick here…
NPCText	2208		This is %s, fine. 
NPCText	2209		Need %s more. 
NPCText	2210		And also, %s 
NPCText	2211		I have to say, I was kind of sort of hoping you might not be back… Eech! Yes, I do have to mash it all together and drink it. In theory, so do you each time you drink this or that potion, but trust me, it’s a whole different story when you just straight out… mash it… no boiling… no magic. *Verdant closes her eyes and inhales sharply.* I feel sick and filthy already. Can you mix it for me at least? Leave the feather shafts out…
NPCText	2212		With *pleasure*?! What is that supposed to mean?! Some heroes you are! *She crosses her arms on her chest and kicks a pot your way. You mix the ingredients together and offer the sorceress the resulting goop. It is, indeed, a sight to behold… right before barfing.*
Here it goes. *It takes Verdant a good while to actually do as she must, but eventually she proves her dedication to the cause and downs the mixture.*
NPCText	2213		Well, the ring seemed stuck in my throat for a moment, but I think it passed through. WHO made this recipe? *She glares at a book lying to the side then takes the device and begins to activate it again. The mechanical voice is back.*
Targets found. Realms: Attuned. Time: Attuned.
Targets: Attuned. Captured. Removed. Resummoned. Placed. Detached. 
World: Enroth Year: 1176. Continent: Vori.
*The channeling is over and Verdant opens her eyes smiling at you.*
NPCText	2214		All in all, that was pretty hero-efficient, I must say. One group for the prize of three and then two to spare for future or past catastrophes. Though with all of them placed in the same spot it might be a bit of a hero-oversaturation there. On the other hand, maybe they’ll fall in love and multiply eventually? If you ask me, I think the world needs all the heroes it can get. Yes, I *know* I can just check, don’t be such a buzz kill!
But great job, I mean it. Saving heroes, saving worlds, I might be falling in love with you myself. Just kidding, that’s a done deal. It was love at first sight!
NPCText	2215		Acquire 10 5 Will’o’Wisp Hearts, 5 Wolf Eyes, 3 Phoenix Feathers, a vial of troll Blood, a vial of Gog Blood, 2 Dragon’s Eyes, and a Focal Ring to bring back the lost heroes.
NPCText	2216		Other heroes#Help the Goobers#Telelocator#Infused metal rod#Guiding gem#Wisp wrappings#Telelocator parts#Enchant the Gem#Enchant the Rod#Attune the Telelocator#Attune #Activate the Telelocator#Activate!#Save the Goobers!#Mix the potion#...#Dimensionally displaced goobers
NPCText	2217		Placeholder
NPCText	2218		You see it about in field and town,
It cannot get up,
But will often fall down.
NPCText	2219		rain
NPCText	2220		The strongest chains will not bind it,
ditch and rampart will not slow it down.
A thousand soldiers cannot beat it,
it can knock down trees with a single push.
NPCText	2221		wind
NPCText	2222		An untiring servant it is,
carrying loads across muddy earth.
But one thing that cannot be forced,
is a return to the place of its birth.
NPCText	2223		river
NPCText	2224		With sharp edged wit,
And pointed poise,
It can settle disputes,
Without a noise.
NPCText	2225		sword
NPCText	2226		It is too much for one.
Two it is meant for.
But it no longer exists,
When the two become more.
NPCText	2227		secret
NPCText	2228		This old one runs forever,
But never moves at all.
He has not lungs, nor throat,
Still, a mighty roaring call.
NPCText	2229		waterfall
NPCText	2230		It can move over water,
But cannot fly.
It can move under water,
But stay quite dry.
NPCText	2231		shadow
NPCText	2232		It doesn't live with in a house,
Nor does it live without.
Most will use it when they come in,
And again when they go out.
NPCText	2233		door
NPCText	2234		A shimmering field that reaches far.
Yet it has no tracks,
And is crossed without paths.
NPCText	2235		ocean
NPCText	2236		This engulfing thing,
is strange indeed.
The greater it grows,
the less you see.
NPCText	2237		darkness
NPCText	2238		When it comes in,
From sea to shore,
Twenty paces you'll see,
No less, no more.
NPCText	2239		fog
NPCText	2240		Placeholder
NPCText	2241		%s, friend! You are here, I'm so glad to meet you.
NPCText	2242		I thought I'm lost here, nice to see you again.
NPCText	2243		At least one familiar face amongst this madness, %s!
NPCText	2244		Finally, friends!
NPCText	2245		Who are you? Another horror of this place? If not, let's stay together.
NPCText	2246		Hello, live being.
NPCText	2247		All the wizards around here have gone mad, but their golems are still functioning. The important part is, I don’t want to be here any longer than I absolutely have to.
NPCText	2248		Can you believe these swordsmen thought I was Prince Nicolai? Amazing. Anyway, at least it’s safe in here.
NPCText	2249		The area is swarming with fire elementals. I killed some, but they just keep on coming. Well, at least the fort is empty, so there’s that. Man, it’s so hot in here. Do you have any water? Anything liquid?
NPCText	2250		These stinky hulks outside are about as friendly as they smell. I’ve snuck in here to wait for dawn to come, but it’s still dark outside and I’ve lost the track of time completely.
NPCText	2251		This place is a madhouse! The thing we’re looking for – the Runaway Chaos – it’s not a living being. Think of a ghost or a spirit of some sort.
NPCText	2252		This place… it sends shivers down my spine. It reminds me of Alvar, but we will find no elves here. The lights in the houses turn on and off, even though nobody is here. I think we should look for Runaway Chaos in one of the buildings.
NPCText	2253		Look, I found a diary of some poor sod. Or rather what remains of it. It seems someone got into the Breach long before us… if we can speak in terms of time around here at all. He wrote: “Everything in here is a reflection of things that happened, somewhere, somewhen. None of it is real, with the exception of the Personalities.” It looks like the poor fellow has failed to find a way out of here and began to lose his mind. The last pages are just filled with gibberish about some riddles.
NPCText	2254		My friends! I found it! The Runaway Chaos! Or maybe… maybe it found me? I don’t know, I don’t know, it all feels like a grand jest. It surrounded me with hellish creatures, monsters born of my nightmares. To scare me, perhaps, or just see what I would do. I fought to stay alive and it just laughed. As I say these words, I hear echoes of this screeching laughter piercing through my very skull. And when I finally fell to the ground, without a shred of power left to carry on, suddenly the nightmares… dissipated. Gone, every single one. But the wounds they left were real… and yet, when I looked down, there wasn’t a single cut. Only my torn clothes stood as proof that anything had happened at all.
And then the being spoke to me, in a voice so calm, my own shivers ceased. “I will ask you riddles five,” it said, “Answer them to feel alive. Make a wish if you succeed, maybe then you shall be freed.” I did not know the answers. But it let me be. I don’t know why. Maybe it felt pity. Or maybe it merely wanted to let me rest before it returns to torment me once again.
NPCText	2255		Don't waste my time!
NPCText	2256		Never heard of it.
NPCText	2257		What is this? A new shop?
NPCText	2258		Ah, I do love me some riddles. Tell me what this is:
NPCText	2259		I remember one from my childhood:
NPCText	2260		Sometimes you can find riddles in random books. Delightfully unepexected. Like this one:
NPCText	2261		This one was mumbled in a tavern by a drooling drunk. His last words, actually:
NPCText	2262		Hmm, yes, that will do. It was fun picking your brain, very enjoyable indeed. A good time begs a good reward. Make a wish and I shall make it come true.
NPCText	2263		I don't know anymore.
NPCText	2264		Correct!
NPCText	2265		Not quite, friend, not quite.

NPCText	1673		You know what they say, four is a company, five's a crowd. I'm not looking for the latter.
NPCText	1674		Click again to dismiss 
NPCText	1675		Click again to hire 
NPCText	1676		Become %s.
NPCText	1677		Yes, I'm the one you're looking for. Are you sure you want to walk the path of %s?
NPCText	1678		Congratulations, %s!
NPCText	1679		Your kind cannot become %s. Sorry.
NPCText	1680		Good tidings. I am %s, %s %s. I'd love to see the world and taste the adventure, but it'd be foolish to go alone. Perhaps I could come with you?
NPCText	1681		I cannot travel with you, your party is too full.
NPCText	1682		apprentice,skilled,well known,masterful,great
NPCText	1683		What wretch would want to deal with scum like yourself? Repent for your sins and do not show your face here until you do.

NPCTopic	1778		The Important Matter
NPCTopic	1779		A Little Something
NPCTopic	1780		Your Task
NPCTopic	1781		Time Travel Guide
NPCTopic	1782		Jadame
NPCTopic	1783		Antagarich
NPCTopic	1784		Enroth
NPCTopic	1785		Something terrible
NPCTopic	1786		The Controlled Breach
NPCTopic	1787		What's next?
NPCTopic	1788		Connector gem
NPCTopic	1789		Join!
NPCTopic	1790		Riddle
NPCTopic	1791		Riddle?
NPCTopic	1792		Come with me
NPCTopic	1793		Friend!
NPCTopic	1794		Runaway Chaos
